Abby Stein’s new book, Becoming Eve, exemplifies the pitfalls of the genre of OTD memoir. Her story differentiates itself from others, because Abby also came out as a trans woman, so hers is a story of “two transitions.” Each of Abby’s transitions intensified the other, especially as they both happened in her early twenties, shortly after Abby’s arranged marriage and the birth of her son. But the dominant story is Abby’s chafing and rebelling against the Hasidic Williamsburg community. She rebels against the faith. She rebels against the teachers and school rules. She reads the forbidden books. She engages in a taboo sexual tryst with a yeshiva classmate. And she also recounts rebellion against the rigid gender norms and against expectations that she perform manhood—she refused to get her long hair shorn for payos when she turned three because she wanted long hair, and she had an angry argument with her father at the time of her bar mitzvah. Her dysphoria is but one of the various dissonances she has with this restrictive world. This all comes to a head when she leaves the Hasidic community to find the freedom to express her gender, beliefs, ambitions, choice, etc.This is a story very familiar to me. I too left the Satmar Hasidic community for a degree of these freedoms, as have many others. The story of veering off a prescribed life, of leaving the arranged marriage and nuclear family to self actualize in a secular world that approves of this journey, is the quintessential OTD tale. In this way, Becoming Eve is an OTD book first and a trans book second, and its faults are the kind I often take issue with in the OTD genre.When someone leaves the Hasidic community as I did, they soon learn that their life stories fascinate others. We are still greenhorns when others start encouraging us to write a book. We are urged to get our bestseller out by casual acquaintances and strangers, by our super, gym receptionist, customer service rep, or anyone who picks up on our Yiddish-inflected accent and politely inquires if we ever had sex with a hole in the sheet (“Sorry, you don’t need to answer, but do you mind…is it true…did you?”). We are constantly advised, instructed, cajoled, informed, that we must promptly go tell our terrific stories, and that publishing is how we can get rich quick. People gasp as we describe our arranged marriages and eek us on with encouraging oohs and ahhs when we divulge how many siblings we have; they wag a finger and ask why we haven’t written the book yet. We become keenly aware that some aspects of our lives—ordinary as they were among our childhood peers—now make us special. We learn that experiences that once made us feel awkward and ashamed in our Hasidic family, like divorce and broken family relationships, have become social, if not financial, currency in the secular world. We have a book within us without even needing to be writers. It’s the OTD story.I don’t think OTD stories are problematic at face value. In fact, it is good to tell our stories, good to share, good to read. An introspective telling can remind us that we all have blind spots, unexamined beliefs, need for social approval, occasional herd mentality. I am also a sucker for a sappy personal growth story, and I will embrace a good one, if a little skeptically. But the problem with the off-the-derech narrative is that the secular world forces our varied and vast life experiences into a mold, a narrative arc. The narrative arc is this: We, the ex-Hasidim, were born into a world that suppressed our true selves, where we were engaged in bizarre ritual and eye-popping customs. Despite this, we were special, different from the rest, and we did not remain passive. We fought our way to freedom against all odds. In this story, our character is always self-determined, enlightened, searching, deliberate. We are one thing at first (a thinking agnostic woman in Abby’s case), and we only need the opportunity to express it. When we finally tear the costume off and reveal this core, we have chosen bravery over cowardice, freedom over passivity. We have done the right thing, which all others who stayed behind did not do, because they are too cultishly stupid. Our stories end on an uplifting note with some prized new experiences previously forbidden, like college, McDonalds and ill-fitted jeans.Notice how we’re all the only agents of action directing the course of events. The language is “we leave,” or “we become,” we “went OTD,” and “we stopped believing.” It is never “we were pushed out,” or “we couldn’t find our place,” or “we were told we are no longer one of the group,” or “we had a falling out with a business partner or an affair that created a lot of wounds.” The natural interpersonal issues, rifts, instability, personality clashes, our own mess-ups and indulgences, or our appetite for greener grass, none of those are mentioned.This story is far from the version Hasidim tell about us, which is often more complicated by bad ingredients like nasty gossip and schadenfreude, but which also includes more honest aspects, like family feuds and individual bad actors. For instance, I tell myself a narrative that somewhat indulges these tropes, but my mother would tell you a very different story. She recently surprised me when she told me quite angrily that my mother-in-law, called a shvigger, was the reason I left. “She ruined your life, your shvigger. She ruined it. All because of her…”Did I leave, or did my mother-in-law make me? I would not compliment my former mother-in-law with so much power or with pronouncing my life ruined—it is very decidedly not, even if it is nothing I’d foreseen for myself. But there is probably some truth to my mother’s version—after all, the evil mother-in-law from hell was a real nightmare I once dealt with. The friction that existed between her and me was like many of messy sub-plots (or main plots) that are inevitable in our lives. The petty dramas and the fights that break out over whose challah recipe we might use will never play a real part in our OTD “bestsellers,” because these parts don’t fit the arc. No chatty beautician has ever listened to me tell of the wedge my mother-in-law drove into my marriage, and exclaimed, “You must write a book! My, that’s crazy, unbelievable, you gotta write a book!” Readers don’t necessarily want to hear what shaped me, only the life events that fit together to make a coming-of-age story, and perhaps elements that sound foreign or strange to them. They are flattered to hear that their lifestyle and values are worth the steepest sacrifices of the closest relationships in our lives. I deeply dislike books that indulge the audience on this. Such books are not enriching, and we don’t learn to have empathy for people different from us. They might tell a “true story,” but true only in the factual sense, not in terms of personal honesty.Abby Stein’s memoir has many moments of candid, simple, sweet retelling, but for every page of straightforward memories, there is one that feels inorganic. She looks back, digging to find the moments that prophesied her trajectory. A precocious young child who was born premature and had some early health problems (a hernia at two), she remembers that she wanted a girl’s dollhouse after one of her surgeries, and tells us that this proves her future. When she turned three, she cried and resisted the traditional boy’s haircut, here also, we are told, because of how it conflicted with her true self. And as soon as she was a teen, she began questioning the faith. “I had no faith in anything I was told. If they were wrong about my gender, they could be wrong about God, too,” she writes. “I noticed these disconnects everywhere. I found them in every step.” The book tells us that the adult Abby was there all along, from the earliest age, only waiting to break free. The reader is almost relieved not to hear some anecdote about her crying during her circumcision, at eight days old, to revolt against archaic faith and gender pronouncements.Full review: https://friedavizel.com/2019/12/11/be...   “In a Community that is so sheltered that doesn’t even fight or hate the LGBTQ+ Community but simply ignores it, I had no idea there was anyone else like me”.  “Without the Internet, without English, I had no name for what I felt”. First born son, Yisroel Avrom Ben Menachem Mendel, came from parents descended from rabbinic dynasties—(Czarist Russia or Austria-Hungarian), royal families of Hasidism. Avrom had five older sisters. [12 siblings total in Avrom’s family]. He lived in a secluded Hasidic community - in New York - that created an internal economy, with it’s own clothing, shops, brands, schools, charities, and every other organization it needed to lead an independent homogenous lifestyle with as little outside influence as possible. He was groomed from birth to follow the lifestyle path at the Hasidic tradition. Avrom got married at age 18, finished his rabbinical studies, and got his rabbinical degree. When he was 20, his son was born. It became more and more difficult for him to stay in a community, to stay religious, and to continue life looking like a man. The Hasidic community is one of the most gender segregated societies in the United States. Gender roles are deeply ingrained in that lifestyle. Avrom’s story includes two interwoven transitions: coming out at the ultra orthodoxy, and coming out as a trans woman. Twenty four years passed before Avrom stood in a synagogue, one her father would never consider to be kosher, and received her new name.  “But let’s not get ahead of ourselves. A lot happened in between”.  “The school was filled with students who questioned little and seemed entirely content with our way of life. And then there was me, questioning everything we were supposed to believe and twisting myself up in knots”.  “On the one hand, I wanted to succeed in a world that was the only one I’ve ever known. I wanted to excel at yeshiva and become a rabbi. There was no other way of life that was even in my periphery. So I tried to suppress my religious misgivings, to squash my doubts and disbelief’s, even when I knew they were right”  “On The other hand, it was hard to ignore them”.As a teenager with a sometimes a hot temper and feelings of being a girl, there were days when Avram couldn’t pray because he doubted God’s existence.I couldn’t pull away from this story - lost a nights sleep...It’s courageous...It’s fascinating...He/*she* was born with an magnificent imagination... and a brilliant inquisitive mind. This is an exhilarating memoir - a journey of inspiring awakening and self discovery. An absolutely engrossing - heartfelt story of a girl-coming-of-age!!!I feel TONS-of-LOVE for Eve....who is actually now named **Abby Chava Stein**...( an American Transgender, Activist , Rabbi, and model)    When I read the blurb, I didn't assume that this would be a book that would make me stay up two hours after I had planned to go to sleep, simply because I couldn't stop reading it. And yet, I thought I'd only read one chapter to see what it's like and next thing I knew, I was 40 pages away from the end.As I am also on the trans-Jewish intersection, I was really excited to read this. I've heard of Abby Stein's story before (and will forever feel bad for not going to see her speak in Tel Aviv when she was there) but there was something so delightful about hearing her story in her own words, about suddenly seeing all these tiny moments come together and create who she is. This book is well written and has a fantastic flow to it. Abby writes about her own experiences and I truly hope people won't see this version as the only version of Hasidic life. I'm not Hasidic but I've experienced so much kindness from this community and I think in many ways, us secular people have a lot to learn from them. Like, family values, dedication, and community values. True, there are many negative aspects and Abby describes them but I feel it's important to acknowledge that the good exists too, even if it was not right for Abby. On a good week, I study about 6 hours of Talmud which compared to a Hasidic person is virtually nothing but I have to say, Talmud is seriously hard and it's frustrating to hear voices around me belittle it, as if studying Talmud isn't as hard as reading Plato (in my opinion, it's so much harder). I loved that Abby had this passion for studying and that through this all, the studying helped her. There was a time when I thought I'd leave Judaism because of the gender roles. This idea that women are, in any way, less than men or that I will forever have to pick a side of the mechitza, that my love for a woman could be wrong, it all struck me as impossible. And yet, finding out that Judaism doesn't have to be this way was one of the best things that happened to me. Ultimately, Judaism is so beautiful and I'm so happy that Abby Stein found her way to be happy within Judaism. Last year, I spent two months roaming around Europe and decided that I would do my best to go to a Shabbat service in each city I was in. I also didn't want to go to Chabad because I wanted to know what the local community was like. Apart from Copenhagen (seriously, Danish Jews, get yourself together), I succeeded and it was awesome to see how connected we all are. Most of the synagogues I went to were egalitarian, on the Conservative-Reform spectrum and even though these communities vary so greatly, we are still the same people. Ever synagogue had a different way of singing some of the songs but the prayers and the traditions were all the same and it's amazing to think that even though this Judaism is so new, the traditions are there and it's just the perfect balance between old and new. The same statistics about how egalitarian Judaism is growing that cause Ultra-Orthodox people to panic bring me so much joy because we're actively making Judaism better. Surprisingly, this book is a lot more about religion than it is about trans issues. Talking about people coming out with dramatic sentences like, "ahh, she's so brave" or "so inspiring" is a cliche but I genuinely think leaving religious communities is one of the hardest things a person can do, trans issues aside. My sole critique is that the storytelling was a little odd. I mean, some periods of time are very drawn out while others are skipped over. I understand that the actual process of coming out must have been challenging but from the moment she learns that she's trans, the narrative essentially jumps to her abandoning the religion and that's a huge shame because I'm positive there was something that happened in between. Heck, I'm curious how and when did she learn English and what was it like to suddenly leave the Hasidic community and go to Colombia University. All in all, this book is well worth the hype. I know I pretty much say this about every trans biography I read but this really is one of the best ones I've read. I think Stein does a great job at being accessible towards people who might not know much about Judaism or transness.   What I'm Taking With Me  - Hebrew websites about queerness helped Abby Stein figure it out. It's awesome to realize that they help Hasidic Jews as well as Israelis. - The other day I came across a new way of typing in Hebrew where the gendered words can be read both as feminine and as masculine and I can't help but think that this is a good beginning, we're going to be able eventually to force Hebrew to be feminist and still keep our traditions. - I absolutely adore the idea that a direct descendant of Baal Shem Tov is a trans activist. - One day, I'm going to know Yiddish. I absolutely feel like I have to and that it's a shame that we've brought Hebrew back but are killing Yiddish. - It's wild to think that there are Americans that know more Aramaic than English.   I am not sure how I wanted to rate this book. For now I will leave it as a 3.0.I have to decide what I was expecting from reading this memoir.The author makes a strong point that tolerance and understanding are not suggestions made within ultra religious communities and families when a norm changes. I give Eve kudos as she bares her soul to us but more so to her family which Im sure takes guts to do within her strict unforgiving community she describes. I was looking forward to understanding every viewpoint within this memoir; yet understanding the right for privacy. I wondered about emotions of Eve's x-wife. Did she have more empathy for Eve as a woman herself. and curious if there was any initial blame put on her as a female by the community?reply | edit | delete | flag *  It's a unique topic to be sure, a compelling story simply and cleanly told. But there is a big gap between the last chapter and the epilogue, and that dampens the memoir experience. I don't know why the past few years of Abby's path from Hasidic man to non-Orthodox woman was left out, whether it was too painful/personal or the book was rushed to publish before complete. But it really bothers me. If you're going to write a memoir, tell the story in full, otherwise write an article or a blog or some format where it doesn't stand out so glaringly.  3.5. I’m fascinated by memoirs of leaving and living in Orthodox Judaism, but this one took things even a step further as Abby Stein not only left the Orthodox community, she transitioned to female after being a married rabbi with a child. My disappointment with the book was the lack of emphasis on the transition itself. How did she tell her wife, how is she allowed by the community to still have a relationship with her son. How difficult was the physical transition, etc. maybe there’s another book coming?   This was a good read - though it ended very abruptly, like the publisher could not decide whether to order in two volumes or just one. I have very strong feelings about the topic, so it might take me a while to review the book in more detail.___Source of the book: Lawrence Public Library (currently closed, but I got this one just before they closed)   Becoming Eve is both a memoir which recounts Abby Stein's early life as a member of a Hasidic Jewish family and her realisation that she's a trans woman, and an explanation of a sheltered and separationist religious community—in her case, the Hasidic communities of Brooklyn—to secular non-members. English is not Stein's first language, nor even her second, so I'm willing to grant her a lot of leeway on her prose on that basis, but while I found this an interesting and even important read, I didn't think that it was that good as a book. It's at times fairly surface/basic in terms of analysis—as if it was being written with say a teenage audience in mind—and there's surprisingly little in here at all about her actual transition or the two years or so leading up to it. I would have liked to read more exploration on Stein's part about what happened during that period, especially since she hints that the period between the birth of her son and her leaving Williamsburg was a time of intense dysphoria/crisis, but I presume that this is at least in part to protect her ex-wife and son.   There’s no question that Ms. Stein is an amazingly brave and strong pioneer. I was excited to read her book. Sadly, I was disappointed. The detail devoted to the readings and education of the Hassid way of life is interesting but much too much, leaving out so many opportunities to expand on the personal trials and challenges, such as the relationship with the wife and child. I’m wondering about what made Ms. Stein leave her marriage and child, and why they didn’t talk more about her later life.   hell yeah abby!!! There are many memoirs about transitioning and many memoirs about leaving ultra-Orthodoxy, but this is the first to ever combine them. "Becoming Eve" is a groundbreaking story told with an authentic voice. Abby shares both the good and bad parts of growing up Hasidic, bringing us into her close-knit, loving family while shining light on problematic aspects of the lifestyle's strict need to conform. The book's tone is hopeful and positive, even after everything she's been through, which is refreshing to see in this kind of memoir. As Abby says, to be continued! I hope she writes more books about her life and her Torah.  Reading the reviews, I see some complaints that Abby skips a number of years, in between coming out and the present day. I think it's important that we remember that we (as readers) are not entitled to every event of her life. It makes complete sense that she would not want to share details about people -- especially her son -- whose privacy she wants to protect. Furthermore, there may be events that she isn't sharing because they are painful. Or, simply, she might not want every detail of her life to be out there for public consumption, for no deeper reason than that. And, in fact, I think we should embrace the omissions, as they make the things she does share more meaningful.  Stein gives here an incredibly detailed look at her upbringing, assigned male at birth in a historical rabbinic family in the New York Hasidic community. I appreciated not only her reflections on what was stifling and repressive in that context, but also her attention paid to what she loved and what nourished her growing up.There are two challenging aspects for me in the portions of her story related to gender. One is that, though she fought it until her twenties, she reports that as early as perhaps 2 or 3 years old there was some part of her certain she was a girl. That early binary certainty is simply foreign to my existence, and I sometimes bristle at the broad room made for those kinds of trans narratives to the exclusion of others. The second challenging part is that its 25 pages from the end of the book before she leaves the Hasidic community, learns the word transgender and lives as a woman. While her story is of course hers to tell, it was tough to come through so much of her life that fit so poorly, and then rush through the peace she found. My experience of the end feels especially abrupt and unfinished with her relationship to her beloved son completely unmentioned and unaddressed after her transitions.It's otherwise an easy read, and clearly a labor of love, though often a bit dry. I know someone will see themselves in this, I know spirits will be lifted and I'm glad for that.  A very interesting memoir of growing up as rabbinic "royalty" in a Hasidic community while feeling estranged from one's body and from the strict gender socialization of that community. It's always fascinating to see inside a closed community, and Stein is a good enough writer to make that world come alive.However, Stein's memoir is only about life inside that community, which means that some of what I was intrigued about -- the decision to leave the community, what it was like to get a GED and start a secular education, how she supported herself financially, etc. -- is barely mentioned in the last paragraph. There have been other memoirs that covered such material, so maybe Stein didn't think it necessary to include it here, but I'd grown interested enough in her as a person that I wanted to hear about her specific experiences.Also, I couldn't help but wonder what role the hyper-separate gender roles of Hasidism played in Stein's gender struggles. She talks a little bit at the end about gender as a social construct and about gender dysphoria, and I would have liked to hear more reflection from her about whether she would have been less at war with her body in a less binary world. Maybe that's a reflection for her next book!  The story is compelling, if a little scattered. The end felt hurried, but overall was very genuine. Very interesting read.  Amazing!!!!! I’ll come back with a more thorough review later on, but I had to put something here about how fantastic this book is. Definitely a top read for 2020. Přímá dědička zakladatele  ultraortodoxního judaistického hnutí, chasidismu, si od dětství uvědomuje, že je žena narozená v těle muže. Po narození prvního syna opouští hluboce konzervativní komunitu a podstupuje tranzici. Autobiografie s obrovským potenciálem ale bohužel dopadla jako literární Ted Talk. Chasidská komunita Abby Stein v New Yorku – podobně jako všechny chasidské komunity po celém světě – je velmi konzervativní. Velmi konzervativní. V Brooklynu ve 21. století způsobem Východoevropanů konce 18. století, odkud chasidismus vzešel. Jejich svět sám pro sebe je až obdivuhodně neprostupný. Většina obyvatel například neumí pořádně anglicky. Školy trochu angličtiny naučí, ale skutečně jen trochu. Studenti většinu času věnují náboženským textům a židovskému právu. Každodenní život je ostatně plný pravidel. Silně religiózní společnost je například extrémně genderové podmíněná. Chytřejší muži z dobrých rodin věnují život Bohu či právu, ostatní obchodu a vůbec fungování komunity. Ženy rodí děti, pečují o velikánské rodiny a musí být co nejcudnější. Mezi rodinami – celá komunita je velmi klanová – se například vedou spory o to, jestli jsou šedivé punčochy v pořádku, zda náhodou není vhodná pouze černá barva. Logicky zapadajícím střípkem je historka autorky, která má na své internátní škole problém, že používá málo mužné mýdlo. Samozřejmě, že ho používá. Od neútlejšího mládí má totiž pocit, že se měla narodit jako dívka. Stejně jako jejích pět sester, které rodiče přivedli na svět před ní. Ona je však prvním vytouženým chlapcem. Tati, jak svého otce nazývá, má konečně kluka, se kterým bude moci chodit do synagogy a dělat všechny ty mužské věci, kterých je chasidismus plný. Strašná situace, s níž si Stein pochopitelně sama neví rady, natož aby se měla na koho obrátit. Kromě Boha. Tohle je jedna z jejích dětských modliteb. 
  Holy Creator, I am going to sleep now, and I look like a boy. I am begging you, when I wake up in the morning, I want to be a girl. I know that you can do anything, and nothing is too hard for you, so please, I am a girl, why can’t I look like a beautiful little girl?! If you do that, I promise that I will be a good girl. I will dress in the most modest clothes, I will listen to everything Mommy and Tati ask, and I will keep all the commandments girls have to keep, in the best way possible. When I get older, I will be the best wife. I will help my husband study Torah all day and all night, I will cook the best foods for him and my kids. I will have the nicest Shabbos table, and I will have as many babies as I can. God, you have enough boys, you do not need me to be a boy. I promise, if I wake up as a girl, I will make up for it by having many boys, who will be the most studied and pious boys. I want to give birth to girls when I am older, but if you listen to me now, I am ready to make an exchange: Let me be a girl, and I will be happy to have a big family with just boys. Oh God, help me!
 Podobně bolavých pasáží je v knize několik. Drtivá většina jich ale spojená zejména s dětstvím. Autorka totiž pojala svou autobiografii hlavně jako prostor pro zakonzervování dětských vzpomínek a deníkové smíření s vlastní rodinou, ze které si chce pamatovat všechnu lásku a péči. Na dilemata rané dospělosti spojená s ochodem a tranzicí se téměř nedostane. Nemyslím přitom, že bych vyčítal knize něco, co neslibuje. Abby svůj odchod teasuje od úplného začátku, často odkazuje k něčemu dospělému, „k čemu se ještě dostaneme“ a na konci kapitol se rozhodně nebojí používat clifhangery. Její mládí sledujeme po dobrých osmdesát procent knihy. Několikrát se dozvíme, že byla výjimečnou studentkou, zároveň však – a to hlavně – rebelkou, která nakonec zakotvila až na třetí škole. Její rebelství bylo různé. Od obzvláště bystrého zpochybňování základů víry a komunity, přes čtení zakázaných knih po vynález speciálních papírových bomb, které po namočení v kávovém roztoku údajně smrdí jako hovno a zanechávají stopy příslušného odstínu. Výklad je většinu času chronologický, hojně prokládaný historkami a fakty ze života komunity, rodiny a těžko zpracovatelným stopováním rodokmenů. Stein dává vskutku zakusit, jak důležitá je například zmíněná klanovost, když si tahle teta vzala bratra tohoto člověka – a to znamená tohle. Podrobné vykreslování vlastního života a okolí končí zhruba v čase svatby. Tedy v jejích osmnácti letech, kdy v ní začíná dozrávat rozhodnutí o tom, že se něco musí stát, neboť ani hyper-pilné studium, ani víra v Boha neumenšují její pocit genderové dysforie.Biografický film v tu chvíli ale už máme za sebou. Běží pouze titulky telegraficky shrnující další život hlavní hrdinky. Dokončení rabínských studií. Narození syna. Seznámení s internetem. Vygooglení organizace pomáhající odchodu z chasidské komunity. Nešťastné sezení s nechápajícím otcem a progresivním rabínem. Poděkování organizaci. Vyautování na sociálních sítích, po kterém přichází vlna reakcí a žádostí o rozhovory.Budiž. Přesto mně přišlo čtenářsky líto, že poslední zmíněná událost dostane víc prostoru než drobnička o tom, že po vyutování s ní přestalo deset z dvanácti sourozenců komunikovat. Stejně tak její otec s matkou, se kterýma měla velmi silný vztah. Taky nevíme, jak to celé dopadlo na manželku a syna. Nepochybuju o tom, že veřejná podpora znamenala pro mě nepředstavitelné přitakání po letech úmorných pochyb. Právě pro onu nepředstavitelnost by mě ale zajímalo, jak se s veřejným zájmem vyrovnávala. Stejně tak s odsouzením rodinou na straně druhé. Stejně jako trochu kritické posouzení většinové společnosti prizmatem hodnot, které v ní musely do jisté míry zůstat. Stein však nabídne pouze víceméně bezproblémový happy-end s jímavou hudbou. Pak je tady ještě jedna věc. Kniha je literárně docela slabá. Největší řemeslný problém nacházím v následující pasáži, kterou uvozuje jeden z učitelů. “When the Stein student is engaged, the whole study hall can be in flames and it wouldn’t faze him. But when Stein isn’t in the mood, there is nothing you can do.” A Abby Stein dodává: „I think it’s one of the best descriptions of my character I have ever heard“. Ale takhle přece psaní nefunguje. Anglicky píšící mají klasickou editorskou hlášku Show, don't tell. Tohle řeknou, když mladý journo vykopne reportáž slovy shrnujícím „úřady se přehazují problém jako horký brambor“, místo aby popisoval, kdo brambor hází, jak letí, jak je horký, zkrátka akci. Přesně tohle většinu času Abby Stein dělá. Dozvíme se hodně o tom, jaká je podle sebe samé, konkrétních manifestací umožňujících čtenáři udělat si vlastní výklad jejího charakteru ale o dost méně. Dostaneme skripta o životě chasidské komunity a rodiny, vlastní prokreslené prožívání nabídne Stein spíše sporadicky. Mě by přitom velmi zajímalo, jak ji konkrétně ovlivnilo studium kabaly, po jejímž objevení se označuje za velmi mystického člověka. Čtenáře ovšem zpraví pouze o nalezení pasáže pojednávající o možném nesouladu duše a těla v otázce genderu. Ta je pro její život zásadní, proto na ni odkáže vícekrát. Nad rámec zmínky o pasáži ale pouze dodá, že byla chvílema až omámená mysticismem. Ona přitom umí udělat atmosféru. Když popisuje své sblížení s chlapcem na internátě, svou první láskou, s níž prožije své první erotické zkušenosti, její psaní je plné života.To je ale výjimka. Většinu času jde ale o blogový příspěvek z ranku osobní esej, jejichž čas vypršel v roce 2017. Konec je pak jako z Ted Talku. Všechno dobře dopadlo, prosím, všichni si zatleskejme.Magazín Prospect autorku označil za jednu z padesáti nejvlivnějších myslitelek a myslitelů roku 2020. Snad jednou. Zatím o své výjimečném myšlení pouze mluví.  I am truly fascinated by the courage of Abby. I wanted to hear more about her story of liberation and freedom as she finally became the woman she always knew she was. Unfortunately her story missed the mark for me. I wanted more! I wanted her to share her feelings of that first day she stepped out as Abby. I wanted to hear more about her experiences with her family as a woman transitioning.  Becoming Eve isn’t my first foray into reading the stories of people who have left ultra orthodoxy, as I am a Jewish woman that was raised primarily secular in an interfaith/agnostic family. As gently as I can say this, I don’t think I would have finished the book if I wasn’t Jewish. While I can understand the necessity to list family and the relationships for the overall understanding of the book, after awhile I found myself focusing on how everybody is related to everyone else and less on the action of the story. What kept me engaged was reading her story specifically as a Jewish child, and how Judaism, especially Ultra-Orthodox Judaism, impacted her relationship with gender and sex. In my own relationship to Judaism I have analyzed, questioned and lamented how women are treated, and have sought out spaces in which i can feel included during services. I also really enjoyed reading about the familial structure and familial culture of different families and dynasties that are still under this same large Chassidic umbrella. The little idiosyncrasies that separate one family from another while still fitting into these tight constructs is just so interesting to me, especially because we do share a religion. Still I don’t know how engaged I myself would have been if I wasn’t Jewish. My truest gripe with Becoming Eve is the ending, which left me very unsatisfied and unfulfilled. The action is consistently moving forward in a pretty linear way until the birth of her son, and then the drop off is almost jarring. I completely understand the desire and necessity in withholding information (I’ve watched Abby in interviews fervently defend her son’s right to privacy, which I applaud and respect), but the pace of the story needed more of a tapering that went past a handful of pages. A book that wasn’t so tight to a timeline could probably be afforded this kind of abrupt finish. Reading the epilogue (and further the acknowledgments) with so much time lost in between, after so much chronological telling I felt unfulfilled. I blame the editor for this personally; there’s absolutely a way to slowly end a book, protect identities and leave room for a second book. But this might just be a “me” sentiment. I’m not an editor, so there might have been a very good reason for this choice, it just wasn’t my taste. I think this book stands out from other “OTD” stories, because of the added layer of gender identity, and Abby does a great job of letting the reader in on the risk of her feelings and those of the people around her. Leaving the community is one thing, transitioning is an added “offense,” for lack of a better word. I think everyone can take a little something away from Becoming Eve, whether that be a feeling of sympathy or empathy or even sisterhood. And not just toward other Jews like Abby, but to those who haven’t been able to escape the insular communities they were born into. Her bravery is so commendable and I’m thankful to have been able to read her story. I’m certain it helped someone, Jewish or not, take one step towards becoming their truest self.   Amazing, amazing book. I love her writing style. It's like catching up with an old friend over coffee. A casual and accessible treatment of what must have been such a difficult childhood. I'm really grateful to have found a Jewish community that is not just accepting of, but also celebrates trans Jews, including having a trans rabbi. So it's important to be reminded that, unfortunately, this is not a universal attitude and that trans Jews elsewhere need help being accepted. I think the most fascinating parts of the book were how Stein found opportunities for gender rebellion and expression within a Hasidic context. But I also appreciated the inside look into Hasidic daily life. I enjoyed learning all of the interpretations of law and minchagim I wasn't aware of before - little things like Hasidic men going to the mikveh every morning. I am so grateful that Stein wrote about her experiences and look forward to seeing what comes next for her!   Continuing my theme of reading about people leaving Orthodox Judaism this year, Becoming Eve might be my favorite of them all.The only disappointing part is that the portion of the book discussing Abby's actual transition is very brief. I understand that this is a story in progress so to speak but we go from Abby's son's bris being the tipping point to jumping ahead a good four years. I'd like to hear more about her decision to leave and how she did that. Then again, that was the content of most of the other books of this type that I read this year were specifically about the individuals deciding to break free of Hasidic Judaism.  I seem to be on something of a memoir kick. This is another one that I'd been hearing/reading about a lot: on lists, podcasts, etc., and it's another one that makes me admire a courageous writer. Near the end of the book, Stein writes that her story "is still happening"; the text's final sentence is "To be continued!" I'll look forward to reading the sequel.  deserves a 4.5it is a true story about a first born son born into a Rabbinical family - born to be a rabbi from a young age she feels she is a girlthis is her journey from getting out of an ultra orthodox family and becoming the girl she was meant to be.....  Very interesting.Learned a lot of the history and customs of the Hasidic Jewish community.Written with great detail and hopefully with honesty it is the story of a woman’s decision that will forever change her life.  Abby Stein shares her story so generously and vulnerably. As a queer and Jewish person, I have found very few books that I have felt reflect my identities so aptly. This book was very hard to put down, and I miss reading it already! Quite possibly, one of the very best books I have ever read! A gripping story that spans a lifetime of uncertainty, until Abby was able to break free from the Hassidic community and become herself. The first of it's kind, Abby Stein recounts her experience having been born as an heir to a long dynasty of ultra-orthodox Hasidic rabbis descended directly from the Bal Shem Tov virtually eliminated any understanding or compassion from her parents for Stein’s personal identity struggles.Abby Chava Stein was born Yisroel Avrom Ben Menachem Mendel in 1991 in Brooklyn, New York. Stein was one of 13 children. It captures her story of growing up an not fitting in, not thinking like her brothers, wanting to be more feminine like her sisters, and struggling to find a place in Yeshiva. She rebelled just so that she could express her own feelings and individuality in a community that had no place for it, despite it being within one of the most modern, liberal and diverse cities in the world, she was trapped by her insular society and cultural norms that honoured traditions dating back to 18th century way of life in the old country.I found that the irony of the fact that had Abby been born into a Jewish family only a few blocks over from where she lived, this story may not have been so remarkable. But the juxtaposition of her, as the Kabbalah explained, the feminine soul was re-incarnated into a boys body in a Hasidic American shtetl. Her attempts to rebel were allowed and even encouraged by her father because she was doing what higher thinkers and really what Jewish Rabbinic studies teach them is to ask questions, and push back, critique the scripture and the interpretations of the Torah. All around her, in her home, in school was strict code of rules and conduct highly gender-specific, yet her questions and lack of faith were encouraged by those around her that saw it not as rebellious but the highest order of an inquisitive mind, was to question everything, seek the truth and try and find answers.Even though her first language of Yiddish kept her in the dark, as the feelings that she felt for others did not have a vocabulary in her language. She kept pushing and pushing to learn more and more, by learning to read in Hebrew and exploring every text that she could find to give a possible explanation.In doing so, her Yeshiva and Talmudic teachers allowed her to start to learn Kabbalah or Jewish mysticism, which is traditionally reserved for elder men after they are married. Abby found rational explanations (at least to her within the context of her upbringing) why she had feelings for men, and how to explain them to her family.This book answered many of my own questions about how Judaism has survived for so long and how people within it have thrived despite rigid rules for society and oppression for those around them. There seems to be a permissiveness that the book touches on, that it is ok to rebel, to ask questions, to seek answers from others, to get another (Rabbi's) opinion. This is all very much encouraged in their culture.Ultimately, it was a struggle, but one that I think Abby did in the most honoured way which gave her strength and encouraged her to push forward to find answers without badmouthing where she came from.Notable highlights: I loved all the Yiddish vocabulary I learned from this book as well as the religious family org chart it paints of the Rebbes as descendants of the Baal Shem Tov. This text explores both modern-day themes of diversity (not inclusion) but in search for an explanation of what was going on with herself, Abby navigated her culture and religion from within its structure and essentially became and an expert on Hasidim that she explained very well in the book.Having grown up myself in a modern conservadox family and having visited some of the communities that Abby is from, Williamsburg, NY, The Catskills religious summer camps, I myself recognized the scenes that she described. There was a lot of familiarity to me of the traditions she described but with much more context and from an entirely different perspective, like the whole Mikveh ritual.Interesting things I learned or Takeaways:What I liked most about this book was that I felt it was really neutral in terms of not being too judgmental and cast blame on her upbringing or experience. It never felt like she was oppressed and pained. It was really factual and painted a clear picture of what I imagine many homosexual people probably feel inside their heads from such a young age in trying to rationalize their thoughts with their environment and cultural norms. Abby never had the experience of knowing about what those feelings were, they did not have a label attached to them, she was merely exploring by reading and learning and questioning deep into the resources she had to help her feel that she belonged and so she could explain it to others.What I also liked was that she did find explanations and answers within the confines of the strict culture that she lived, in the Kabbalah, which is a perfectly acceptable place and rationalization for her feelings that would allow her to connect with her family again. I love that Judaism has all the answers, even if it isn't a regular way of life for her community, she still found a tribe who accepted her outside of her family, but still within her city.Maybe this is why there are literally 12 tribes of Israel, many different versions of Judaism are played out all over the world, some more closely aligned to Hasidim that others, but all still call themselves Jews. It is that enduring rigidity and flexibility that has allowed us to survive all those years and kept us stuck together. We find each other no matter where we go and this book gave hope and a path for anyone who may think that they don't belong in their community. If they are Jewish there will always be another group of Jews that will accept you.What do I want to read next?Anti-Semitism by Bari Weiss  RTC! Fascinating subject material, not a very great book - it focuses a great deal on the author's childhood, education and marriage, all of which are interesting, but oddly spends no more than a couple of paragraphs on her transition, despite it being the concept and title of the book. Abby’s story is both familiar and strange at the same time.Abby grew up in a community like mine, experienced many of her life events like mine, only not like me, at all.&nbsp;I didn’t know what to expect when I started reading. I expected an OTD book, but having never read a transgender book, knew this would be different.I did expect it to be perhaps narcissistic, if Abby’s Facebook wall is any indicator.Instead I found a coming of age story. The typical OTD narrative. The unusual bits about gender dysphoria that I can only read about but never understand.Some strange comments &nbsp;were sprinkled about, for example- it being generally accepted that the Hebrew calendar is Lunar, but really it is lunar in conjunction with Solar. ( say what, now? Generally accepted by whom? You don’t have to make up shit to sound smart),Or Kugelech (similar to jacks) being called "Kokelech" and described as a juggling game. This might be an editorial mistake.The narcissism was still there in the way that she said how smart she is probably 30 or 40 times in the book. Why don’t you tell us a story where we can see how smart you are, instead of telling us how smart you are?&nbsp;Anyway, moving away from the author, or even the story, I want to share my feelings about the book, and a particular review I read.Frieda Vizel wrote a lovely review ( https://friedavizel.com/2019/12/11/be... ) and it resonated in many ways with me, personally.A friend of mine felt that Frieda was mocking the OTD experience. I don’t feel that this is true.You can hold both experiences and stay with those feelings in the same place, without having to mock one or the other.&nbsp;At the end of her review, Frieda writes: “The real missed opportunity, is that there is almost no exploration of how toxic a gender-segregated world can be to those who can’t conform to the rigid male and female dichotomies. A book by someone raised as a man among only men and then comes out as a woman is a perfect opportunity to take a close look."&nbsp;&nbsp;But is it really a missed opportunity?Abby chooses to share her story in ways that are meaningful to her.&nbsp;The gap, however, is still there. There is a question to be asked, and a book to be written about the exploration of how toxic a gender-segregated world can be to those who can’t conform to the rigid male/female dichotomies.Writers- take note!  Abby Stein's life story is very interesting, but what I find even more interesting is the way she wrote and structured her memoir. Some reviewers have criticized that she spends a lot of time describing sometimes intricate details of her method of religious study, but I personally think that something that obviously had such a big impact on her life deserves as much space as she wants to give it here. I agree that it sometimes feels like she skipped important details, especially nearing the end of the book when she was talking about her exit from the Hasidic community, but again, I very much understand where she is coming from when she withholds certain details that aren't fully "her own" to share with the world and publicize. The writing style was not always amazing, but considering that Stein learnt English as a second language quite recently, I don't consider this a fatal flaw. Also, listening to the audiobook read by the author makes this a negligible detail in my opinion.  odd man out #2 Imagine being transgender and part of a fundamentalist religious community in which gender roles are deeply engrained - so much so that you don't even know that gender dysphoria exists. This is Stein's story of how she left her Hasidic world and came out as transgender; she says she's unaware of another memoir that combines both experiences. I almost gave this five stars; I enjoyed it that much. The whole topic is fascinating, and Stein describes everything so well. But when she describes how various people are connected, my eyes almost glazed over; I couldn't keep everyone straight. It was also weird how she refers to her mother as "Mommy" throughout - even as an adult. I don't know if this is typical of Hasidim. While this is obviously a very personal story to tell, Stein glosses over too many things, jumping ahead a lot in the end. Did her parents decide to never speak to her again? That's the impression I got, but it wasn't spelled out. How did she tell her wife about being transgender, and how did Fraidy deal with it? Does Stein get to see her son at all? How long did it take her to learn English? Etc. ETA: I just spent way too much time looking her up online. A July 2020 Hadassah article has the most information. She doesn't talk about her son due to a custody agreement, but you'd think she could at least describe the relationship other than telling the Today show that he can talk about it when he's 18.  This was such a fascinating read, I finished it in two days! Abby Stein's story of transition is unique in that she was raised in an ultra-Orthodox Hasidic community. The role of gender in this society is so segregated that it affects almost every aspect of daily life. Abby focuses on the love and support of her community as much as her inner confusion and anguish at not being treated or recognized as her true gender, proving true that not all cases of family dysfunction are so black and white. Today, she maintains many of the beliefs she grew up with, and is very much a devout Jew, despite no longer speaking to her parents. The book mostly focuses on her early childhood and adolescence, her time in yeshiva as a student, and then briefly her marriage and the birth of her first child, which led to her final decision to leave the community. I was curious to hear more about what the reaction of her wife and child were, as she didn't go into detail on this at all. Seeing a transgender experience through the lens of a Hasidic upbringing brought many new insights, though, and I am so appreciative of her bravery and resolve in telling her story!  Becoming Eve : my journey from ultra-orthodox rabbi to transgender woman. This is Abby Chava Stein’s memoir. She tells us what it was like to grow up in the most orthodox of orthodox families in #Brooklyn, knowing from her earliest memories, that although on the outside she was male, on the inside she always was female. Growing up in this community, where girls and boys are segregated from early childhood, posed unique challenges for Chava. She succeeded where many others have not. I highly recommend reading it. #becomingeve @abbychavastein @jewishbookcouncil #kabbalah #hasidism #catskills #rabbiissacluria #leilshishi #genderdysphoria   Becoming Eve is an honest and moving portrait of a life spent in questions and contemplation. Any coming out journey is fraught; even more so when coming out means having to physically, emotionally, and spiritually leave home. Written with tenderness and strength in equal parts, Stein tells her story piece by piece as though she is sitting right next to the reader. What I respect most about this memoir, is that Stein speaks with respect about people who no longer respect her. That takes courage, compassion, and a great deal of love. This is a very moving book and I strongly encourage people to read it.   This is a poignant autobiography in which the author reflects on the pain of growing up in a society in which she was unable to be herself while still finding moments of warmth and tenderness in nostalgic reminisces she holds dear. This account tends to be on the cerebral side, as even a dedicated memoirist might not be desirous to plumb the depths of her emotions for the entire world to see. That’s certainly understandable and perhaps accounts for the abrupt way the narrative concludes. There is, however, an explicit “to be continued,” so hopefully readers will hear more from this author in the future.  I was lucky enough to see Rabbi Stein speak at my neighborhood synagogue a few years ago and her memoir is as honest and compelling as she is as a speaker. Her writing is clear and heartfelt and she offers a fascinating glimpse into the extremely insular Hasidic communities in Brooklyn, as well as into her own personal struggle to name her truth and live life as her authentic self. The book ends just after she leaves her family and community and begins to transition, and my main critique is that I want a sequel that explores her life as an openly trans woman.  Ms. Stein’s sharing of personal experience is beautifully written. Though extremely personal, her experiences speak to the reader in a multitude of ways, connecting with any part that has ever felt confused, alienated, or unaccepted. Ms. Stein is able to share the beauty of her life before, and to make the reader believe. Her ability to look upon her earlier years with love and thanks, illustrate her as a special person in our world, deserving of her heritage.  This memoir was a powerful narrative of a courageous journey. There were pieces of the narrative missing, particularly the move towards transitioning and leaving the ultra-orthodox community. However, in listening to interviews I understand that this choice may have been made in order to protect her son. I admire her courage. In reading this book I thought about the difference between running from and running towards, this seems a narrative of transition that is running towards.   An interesting memoir by a person who grew up in a male role in an ultra-orthodox Jewish community in New York City.The author became a rabbinical scholar, married, and sired a son, all by age twenty.But deep inside, they always knew they were female. How did they deal with it, and what happened when this was finally acknowledged?  I found this book fascinating but I hated the ending because it left me with many unanswered questions. There was this big “ lead up” and then it just...ended. So that was disappointing but still a great book. What’s amazing to me is that the author writes with little bitterness or resentment toward her extremely strict and isolating upbringing.   As Theo put it; “i don’t usually vibe with memoirs,” but I literally finished this in four days, reading most of it today. I loved learning about the Hasidic community, which I knew absolutely nothing about prior to reading this. Abby’s strength is truly admirable. The only thing I didn’t enjoy was some parts were repetitive, and the mixed chronology kinda contributed to that.   Отличная, очень честно написанная книга, и у автора замечательный редактор. Только вот жаль, что последняя часть — самая, можно сказать, интересная, собственно про выход и переход — такая скомканная, запихнутая в одну главу плюс эпилог.  I loved this book. It was a fascinating read about both the Ultra Orthodox community and transgender issues. It was especially interesting because she still embraces Judaism, just not the ultra orthodox version. And, her description of the feelings from a very young age was compelling. Polished this off in one sitting. I have followed Abby on social media for a long time and this was a heart wrenching, fascinating read. Really easy to read, Abby’s story flows seamlessly through her childhood as a male Hasidic Jew to her blossoming as the girl she always knew she was.  I absolutely loved your book, Abby! After having followed your transition from afar at Romemu and having been a reader of your blog, I found your book informative, heartfelt, warm, and so beautifully introspective. You write so well - it was a great to read.  Courageous woman particularly given the extensive details about the community Abby was raised. She was from a loving family, I can't imagine how much she must miss them. Interesting insight into the haredi community and their history. I don't even know what to say. Reading this book filled me with so much joy, sadness, compassion, frustration, and love. When I finished the epilogue, all I could do was hug this book to my chest and say "thank you" to the pages. I feel like I can breathe again. Thank you.   Details following the journey of a young Hasidic boy who always felt he was a girlThrough Life at Yeshiva, getting married,becoming a father and knowing something was not right; he transitions into Eve. I found it an interesting insight intoHasidic and transgender worlds   I inhaled this book! The writing is very smooth and easy to digest, and the content was super interesting. My main complaint: I felt like the book ended a bit abruptly, and I would have like a little more detail about how Abby transitioned out of her Hasidic life into a more secular one. Amazing and inspiring true story. Even though I know Abby and have heard pieces of her story, this was very powerful to read. An open and honest account of leaving an Orthodox Jewish community and coming out as transgender. The glimpse into Hasidic life was fascinating, but I would have liked to learn more about the author's relationship with his wife and son.  What a brave soul.  I cannot put into words how much this book means to me and how much of an inspiration Abby Stein is Such a brave and moving account of one woman's journey of self discovery. I picked up this book because a family member is transgender. I continued to read it eagerly because of the author's honest, compelling, compassionate voice. Abby Stein taught me so much about Hasidic Judaism by simply telling her own story of a close-knit, loving family and community. Being trans in "normal" society is a difficult journey. Living that journey inside any orthodox, male-dominated world is more challenging than we could imagine if she hadn't courageously told her story. Kudos to this brave, wise, strong young woman for battling for her identity. I hope that some day her very large family can find a way to accept her for the authentic, strong, proud Jewish woman she is.   Any book that once I finish I immediately find myself googling the author and listening to many of her talks deserves 5 stars. The book primarily focuses on her leaving the Hasidic community however it transpires she has become a wonderful advocate for social justice since. I’d love to have read more about how she got to study at Columbia and her transition to life in NYC. My understa nding of transgender issues is far greater as a result of the book.  I thought this book was great and very moving. Stein tells her story in such fascinating detail, it was particularly interesting learning about different families within Hasidism. I was frustrated that her book ends where it does - there’s about two chapters about her leaving her community and finding new ones, and they were brief. This part of the story interested me a lot and I wish it had the level of detail that the book gave to her first twenty years. I recommend reading this book.   3.5 as an audiobook but i think it would have been a 4 as a physical book. i think i would have enjoyed this just a bit more reading with my eyeballs and would have been able to dive into internet research on some topics that i wasn't familiar with. it's a bit harder to do that extra research while listening since usually I'm in the middle of something else while listening.  The look at Hassidic life was fascinating, though the book isn't that well written (though impressive considering she only learned English as an adult). It ends very abruptly, or rather it suddenly speeds through her decision to transition and leave Hassidism, which I'd been curious to read about. Her story was amazing but it probably could have been written in a more concise way... she did a really great job at explaining Jewish traditions in an easy to understand way which would help to provide context for someone that’s never read about this type of stuff before  Fascinating memoir. A lot of details about the daily life of a yeshiva bocher. I hope there's a sequel about Stein's experience and adjustment to the outside world after she left the community. Her writing is terrific though she left the community with very little English.  An interesting memoir and anthropology. However, the level of specificities oscillated until it’s abrupt ending. It is raw and brave, but it’s withholding. The emotional suspense is leaving me with reading blue balls. 3 1/2 stars. The style is a little stilted and the ending feels a bit abrupt, but considering the author was barely literate in English until adulthood, her ability to tell her utterly compelling story is remarkable. The strength it must have taken to first, leave an ultra Orthodox Hasidic enclave, and then to come out as transgender woman is astonishing. Well worth the read.  This is not a book about someone transitioning. This is a coming of age book about what it’s like to be raised in a Hasidic Jewish family, question your faith, and ultimately decide to go in a different path. She also happens to be transgender. The real “journey” doesn’t begin until the last 25 pages. There are parts where the timeline goes back and forth, making it feel disjointed. I didn’t hate the book, but the title is VERY misleading, almost to the point of just pure shock value.   Fascinating, brave, and forthright. A lucid inside view of life in an orthodox Jewish community and the life of a young trans woman. Life affirming in many ways. I literally couldn’t put it down once I picked it up. Eve is delightful, charming, and super brave. Big tension between fitting in and wanting to be wholly perceived. A peek through the bushes into the Hassidic community. It was interesting to learn that the ancient Jewish texts have the language &amp; frameworks to understand the concept of being transgender (even if it fell flat in understanding the reality of being transgender).  Amazing story of resilience, identity exploration, and a life long dedication to learning. Love a good memoir!  (6/10) Quick read. I found most enlightening the explanations of how Abby knew she was a girl from such a young age. And the coming-of-age storylines (especially at school in the Catskills) were engaging. A whole lot is left out at the end though about the process of transitioning and the aftermath, so that felt a bit lacking.  3.5 3.5 starsIn this memoir, the transgender author Abby Stein writes about her transition from male to female. To avoid confusion, I'll refer to the author as 'he' before the transition and 'she' after the transition.Abby SteinYisroel Avrom ben Menachem Mendel was born into a Chasidic family in Brooklyn in 1991. Yisroel was the first son following five daughters, and his parents were thrilled to finally have a boy. This was especially important because Yisroel's family is descended from Rabbi Israel ben Eliezer, known as the Baal Shem Tov, who founded Chasidic Judaism in the 1700s. The male descendants of the Baal Shem Tov usually become important rabbis, and are something like 'royalty' in the Chasidic community. Rabbi Israel ben EliezerModern day Chasidic RabbisYisroel was not destined to follow this path, however, because - from early childhood - Yisroel knew he was a girl in a boy's body. This was especially bewildering to Yisroel, because the insular Chasidic community doesn't acknowledge (or doesn't know about) the existence of LGBTQ+ individuals. Thus Yisroel - who spoke only Yiddish and Hebrew - had no words to describe his gender dysphoria and no idea there were other people like him.Modern Chasidic community in the Williamsburg section of BrooklynBeing seen as a boy made Yisroel uncomfortable from childhood on. After a hernia operation, little Yisroel was taken to a toy store, where he selected a doll house. Yisroel's parents said this was inappropriate for a boy, and steered him toward the toy trucks. And at the age of three, when Jewish boys get their first haircut, Yisroel insisted he wanted long hair like a girl. Then, upon the approach of Yisroel's Bar Mitzvah at thirteen - when a Jewish boy becomes a man - Yisroel got into his bed and cried uncontrollably. According to the author, this 'gender disconnect' affected almost every aspect of his life through the years.Orthodox Jewish boys get their first haircut at the age of threeJewish boys have a Bar Mitzvah at the age of thirteenAs the author relates the story, we get a picture of Yisroel's home life, parents, (twelve) siblings, extended family, schooling, friends, and the customs and beliefs he grew up with. Chasidic sects are extremely restrictive, resembling eastern European shtetls of the early 1900s. The sects are also exceedingly gender segregated, and boys and girls have little to do with each other until they enter into arranged marriages, usually at the age of eighteen. Early 20th century Chasidic shtetl in eastern Europe Yisroel attended several yeshivas, where boys study the Torah, Talmud and Jewish law. Yisroel was a smart boy and a good student, but he repeatedly engaged in disruptive behavior, attributing this (at least in part) to being in a school for boys, where he felt he didn't belong. Yeshiva studentsYisroel Avrom ben Menachem MendelIn a description of some of his rowdy activities, Yisroel writes about secretly (and repeatedly) raising the volume of a teacher's microphone to cacophonous levels, which infuriated the educator. And Yisroel admits he convinced some fellow malefactors to toss a smelly concoction that looked like poop at their schoolmates. When Yisroel's role in the incident was discovered, he got in trouble with the school and his Tati (father). Afterwards, someone tossed the odorous mixture at a teacher, who became incensed. The teacher repeatedly hit Yisroel in the face and kicked him in the stomach, in an attempt to extract a confession from the boy, who insisted he was innocent. (This behavior by a teacher is shocking to me.)Turbulent incidents like this, as well as purposely baiting teachers with heretical questions gleaned from 'forbidden books' (like Richard Dawkins' book 'The God Delusion'), resulted in Yisroel attending one yeshiva after another. As a teenager, Yisroel finally ended up at a boarding yeshiva in upstate New York, where he had a sexual relationship with a fellow student. Yisroel didn't know anything about homosexuality, and thought of himself as the 'girl' in the twosome.As was customary in Chasidic communities, Yisroel was betrothed at eighteen, after the engagement was approved by both sets of parents and the Rebbe (religious leader). Moreover, in a modern twist, the DNA of Yisroel and his potential fiancée was tested, to forestall the genetic diseases common among Chasidic Jews. With everything being okay, the couple got engaged, and didn't see each other again until they were married a year later. Yisroel getting marriedMost Chasidic youth know little or nothing about sexual relations until shortly before the nuptials, when they're told what's what. I had to chuckle when Yisroel admitted he thought the woman's 'hole' was somewhere around the belly button. In any case, Yisroel and his wife soon had a son, which was a turning point in Yisroel's life. Once Yisroel had a child, whom he dearly loved, he couldn't go on as a man. Yisroel left his Chasidic community, transitioned to a woman, and became Abby Chava Stein. Stein had a lot of help making this transition, from dedicated non-profit organizations, a liberal rabbi, the LGBTQ+ community, and others. Stein also proceeded to learn English, get her GED, attend Columbia University, and live a 'Western' life.Yisroel transitioned to Abby SteinThe abandonment of Stein's roots is referred to as "off the derech (OTD)", which means "off the path." I would have liked to read more details about Stein going OTD, such as the reaction of her wife (whom she divorced), parents, brothers and sisters, friends, acquaintances, and the wider Chasidic community. Stein says little about this, except for describing a meeting with her Tati, where she came out as transgender. Most of Stein's family refused to speak to her following this, which is common when a person goes OTD. Though going OTD is not uncommon, being transgender at the same time is less usual. Thus Stein's story is enlightening and interesting, and I'd like to see her expand the narrative.You can follow my reviews at https://reviewsbybarbsaffer.blogspot.com  Totally engrossed. I really couldn’t put this book down. Abby writes compassionately to and for her younger self. She expresses deep love for her family. And she lays bare the complexities of leaving the world she grew up in to live life as her full self. Fascinating Thoughtful, powerful, and incredibly rich with detail. Stein is an unforgettable narrator with an incredibly unique life history, and it's a must-read for those reasons, but this is also just a lovely coming-of-age story about knowing who you are and having to remember yourself to yourself over and over. Couldn't put it down.   The story is a solid 4 stars, but the writing is amateurish, thus the 3-star rating. I can't fault the author too much for this, as the tone adds a personal credence to it, but it definitely needed more work on the editing front. The pacing of this story felt off to me. So many pages devoted to childhood and adolescence - and then almost none devoted to marriage and life thereafter. I wanted to know more about the actual process and emotional complexity of leaving the Hasidic community - and about what it looked like making friends and forging community thereafter.   This is such a deeply personal story, and while structurally I found it lacking in some areas, I think it’s an important one. I’m not comfortable assigning a rating to it, but would recommend it to friends in the Jewish community for sure. Really a 3.5 A very interesting read on two accounts. A memoir about a "boy" living a strict Hasidic life in the Jewish community, who always knew he was truly a girl.Not only is this the story of a young person struggling to come out as trans, but doing so in one of the most gender-segregated communities in America. A boy has many expectations &amp; obligations dumped upon him as a Hasidic Jewish child, which is hard enough. But what if you never really were a boy in the first place? What if, in your mind and your heart, you were a girl who always had to pretend in order to fit in and be loved?Would you be willing to leave behind everything &amp; everyone you know to become the person you truly are? Sometimes the truth is so loud in your heart, it won't give you any other choice.If this topic interests you, I would recommend it.  Parts of this were very interesting, learning about the Hasidim Jewish community was quite new to me. The ending was abrupt, I thought. After 95% of the book talking about the author's feelings that "I'm a girl, not a boy", there is only one short chapter that really tells about the transition or life afterwards.2020 AtY: 23. A book featuring an LGBTQIA+ character or by an LGBTQIA+ author2020 Pop Sugar: A book on a subject you know nothing about  OTD memoir with gender dysphoria thrown in. grateful that Abby shared her story with us. at times, the writing is scattered and it can be difficult to follow chronologically what is happening. the end was abrupt and it felt like a huge chunk was simply missing. i can understand that she may not have been ready/may not ever want to publicly retell certain parts of her journey, but it was jolting to go from the last chapter to the epilogue. anyway, overall i appreciated the detail she put into telling of the customs and her personal experience, and the honesty in how she told her story - the warmth she felt from family as well as the confusion and hurt. I look forward to reading more from her as her story continues.   My opinion may be skewed because I have read so many memoirs of people who go "off the derech." Abby's story is interesting, and, as they usually say in the blurbs on the back of one of these books, it "opens a window to the insular world" of Vishnitz Chasidim. This one has a "double whammy" because in order to become "the person she was meant to be," Abby had to become a woman. The sensational title will definitely draw curious readers in.Most of the book is about her struggles as she grew up knowing that she was a girl in a boy's body. The part of her story in which I am most interested, after she left her community and her experience with transitioning are discussed briefly in the epilogue. I can understand that she wanted to protect her former wife and her son from any embarrassment or harassment, but it would have enhanced the story (for me) to know her challenges and feelings during that time.  In her memoir, Abby describes from her earliest memory a longing to be a girl, to wear girl clothes, to play with traditionally young girl toys, and to grow up to be a woman. Unfortunately, Abby is male and raised in a strictly ultra-orthodox household in a Hassidic neighborhood in New York. In her community, roles were strictly adhered to and one was either male or female and adhere to the roles assigned to those genders. The memoir is a series of vignettes Abby loosely strings together to create a roadmap for the reader. The end of the journey for us is when she comes out to her father, ends her marriage, leaves her community, and embarks on a new life without the support systems she had known her entire life.It's an interesting account and as a reader, it feels like a voyeuristic experience. The narrative is fair, not particularly engaging, and not one that beckons the reader to read and reread.   I had really been looking forward to reading this book. I follow Abby on Facebook and have read a number of articles about her. I was a little disappointed to be honest. I prefer memoirs over other types of literature, but somehow this didn’t speak to me the same way as others. When I read Jennifer Finney Boylan’s “She’s Not There” I felt that I really got a sense of her pain as a woman born into the body of a man. It really touched me. Abby’s book is more detailed about her life, but not a lot of details about the people around her. This book was very much part one of a story that is just getting going. I was most curious about things that happened as she was transitioning, such as her experiences with Footsteps and her decision to go to Columbia university.   I'm always fascinated by memoirs of people who have bravely been able to leave the Hasidic bubble - it's not easy and everyone does it in their own way, for their own reasons. I know that becoming a woman was another major journey of Abby Stein's, but I had hoped the book would cover both journeys equally. Sadly, almost the entire book was about Abby's life in the Hasidic world and hardly about how she was able to leave it. There were maybe two chapters devoted to this. I commend her bravery and ability to stick to her true self and leave the Hasidic world, but I was disappointed in the book.  Pretty standard trans memoir, but the insight into Chassidic Brooklyn was very interesting!Edit: It's pretty funny that this is apparently a mashup of a bog-standard Off The Derekh* memoir and a bog-standard trans memoir, and reviewers are mostly reacting positively to the part they're not already familiar with. TBH, good for her. She had to go through it, and there's clearly a hunger for both narratives from the cis/non-frum mainstream, so she deserves to take the easy money and run!* (off the path; leaving orthodox jewish observance)  Disappointing: the first, poorly-written, 21 chapters (220 pages) describe the author’s childhood and her ever-so-slightly rebellious yeshiva years (which didn’t end with her ordination as a rabbi, so the title is simply sensationalist); in the last chapter (4 pages) she discovers the internet; and the epilogue (14 pages) is about her departure from her Hasidic community and her gender transition. Sloppy work. I liked this memoir of a ultra-orthodox Hasidic young man who grew up feeling his soul was a girl's but his body a boy's. This book is mostly about his fascinating upbringing in a "royal" Hasidic family. It concludes with her leaving her family in order to be more fully herself but doesn't provide many details about that part. Maybe a Part 2 will be coming soon?  Interesting intersection of leaving Hasidism story with trans coming out. I have great admiration for the author and her journey. It focuses on her childhood and adolescence. I would have liked to learn more about her adjustments after she left observance.  A waste of printing. Nothing unique to her story that hasn’t been written by Shulem Deen, Judy Brown and others. Very esoteric narrative.  Wow! Beautiful. Smart. Thoughtful. Compelling. Stein does a fantastic job crafting the narrative of her journey leaving the Hasidic community and coming out as a women.  Fascinating look at the Hasidic world and a transgender woman  It was good there were just so many aspects that I wanted more detail on and less detail in study schedule. Amazing and beautiful. I highly recommend this book and it gave me a new appreciation of Judaism. Absolutely loved this book! I read it quickly and enjoyed every page. Highly recommend if you’re interested in LGBTQ and Jewish topics.  Loved. Gripping and moving. WOW!! What a powerful story. As Lin-Manuel Miranda said, “Love is Love is Love.” Read for Book Riot's 2020 Read Harder Challenge. Category: Read a memoir by someone from a religious tradition (or lack of religious tradition) that is not your own Another look into the problems of Satmar.Reviewed in the United States on December 21, 2019Book review. "Becoming Eve."Quote (Arthur Golden): "Autobiography, if there really is such a thing, is like asking a rabbit to tell us what he looks like hopping through the grasses of the field. How would he know? If we want to hear about the field on the other hand, no one is in a better circumstance to tell us-so long as we keep in mind that we are missing all those things the rabbit was in no position to observe."And with that said, I believe that Stein's book is primarily useful to us as an idea of what life is like inside of the fabled Satmar Hasidic community.Two other books that I have read about this community have a significant amount of consonance with this one. (For the record, those are "All Who Go Do Not Return," by Shulem Deen. And "Unorthodox," by Deborah Feldman.)1. All three of the authors come across as extremely bright people. (For instance, they all learned English as a second language and much later in life. And when you listen to their interviews, there is still a very noticeable and heavy Yiddish accent.)Just the same, they all have first class prose.2. There is a significant amount of homosexual activity in these yeshivot (p.118). In the Deborah Feldman book, her husband was not able to consummate the marriage for the first year because of his proclivities. And in the case of Stein, s/he had a relationship with another man in Yeshiva for two years until s/he got married.3. There is excessive concern with the minutiae of Judaism. Do the person's tights have a line on them or not? What color are the tights? (An entire marriage almost did not happen because of arguments about the color of somebody's stockings.)Do you wear your headband on the left or the right side? (The author changed the side of his/her hat band, and that was enough to mark him as a "rebel.")*******There are a lot of things that I have seen myself, and that don't surprise me. (The number sequence is continued because these are things that the author has also observed.)4. There is an idealized past. In the observation of this author, people who really did live in Hungary at the time there was the Satmar dynasty there spoke both Hungarian and Yiddish. But, in the new and recreated community in the United States, people only spoke Yiddish.The European Jewish Diaspora did work, and they only supported a small class of professional scholars, but in the United States young men sit in a building and polish seats for years on end.This fetishization of a past that never existed squares with my experience of Haredim.5. The consequences of both formal and informal law (halacha) as contingent on who is the transgressor.The author did enough to get kicked out of school many times. But, because of his/her background... He was granted one reprieve after another.(I myself have been mistreated because of my convert status, but when I tried to speak to the authorities of the community they had nothing to say against the slanderer, because he is a "prestigious person.")6. The Talmud study is very much like a Rube Goldberg contraption: it seems to serve the triple purpose of keeping the young men off the streets, keeping them under control, and creating a sense of self-importance.If somebody happens to learn a little bit of Talmud through all of those 17 hour days, that's a nice coincidence.**********Even though the author and I are two very different things (s/he is Jewish by chance and I by choice, and I'm cisgender against her being transgender), I find him/ her to be a very sympathetic character.To wit: I have enough African ancestry to create a serious burden, and can't change it a bit. The author was born a male and it was more than s/he wanted.Different experience, analogous commiseration.There is just one thing in the whole book that did not sit quite right with me. Satmar people in the United States do not speak Hebrew, because there is no need to.And yet this author claims to have read books by Richard Dawkins in Hebrew. (Modern Hebrew.)I found that the translations were made, but how did this author know about books by Richard Dawkins if s/he only accessed the internet at the very end of the story?This is an absolutely massive book. I picked it up from the library and started it just as Shabbat was coming in, and finished it just as it was going out.It's that easy to read and that interesting.Verdict: I got this book from the library, but if I had to calculate how much money I would come up off of to read it..... I would say that it's worth about $10 to me.  I listened to this book on audiobook, after having heard Abby Stein on an episode of This American Life. On TAL she told the story of watching her sister's wedding through a fence, and I was immediately struck by her emotional eloquence. It affected me deeply to hear her describe how her mother became a 'living ghost' after she was cut off by her family. When they mentioned that Abby had written a book about her experience I knew I had to hear more of it.In its description of the trans experience the book reminded me a great deal of Conundrum by Jan Morris - perhaps because Morris, having grown up in the 1930s and 40s, was equally as unaware that there was anyone like her in the world as Abby, growing up in a Hasidic community in Brooklyn in the 1990s and 2000s.What struck me about Abby was how, in one of the world's most conformist communities, she seemed to know herself on some deep level. Not just her gender identity, but her persistence in questioning received wisdom and setting out to learn more for herself.It was amazing to hear how, even though in the end Abby's trans identity made it impossible for her to stay in the community, she was recognised by others as someone with a great capacity for wisdom and learning. A 'seeker', as her father called her at one point in the book. She didn't just cause trouble (although there was plenty of that!) - she succeeded in getting (some) conservative elders to accept that she wasn't going to be satisfied by their answers and that she would have to be allowed the freedom to seek some of her own.A particularly touching moment for me was when she discovered a Kabbalistic text which referred to the possibility of a woman being reincarnated into a man's body. It was joyful to hear what it was like for her to discover that what she felt had a precedent and a name. Reading of the life of the Hasidic community also have me many conflicting feelings. I will admit that, having walked past Hasidim in London or read about custody battles in the newspapers, I listened with tourist-like curiosity about Hasidic life. At first, they felt like an other. Abby's description of the battle between her parents' families as to what colour stockings should be worn by women at her parents' wedding sounded almost farcical. And yet as I heard more, I couldn't help but feel that discussions about modesty, about what women should wear, and the petty status games that humans play, are also (for better or worse) universal. How many of the things we fight over would sound ridiculous to a Hasidim?Sometimes I was amazed at the strictures of Hasidic life, and yet I could also see that in exchange for the stifling conformity, there is also a kind of security that comes from this way of life. The many siblings and extended families, the rituals and spirituality - and in particular the knowledge that if you didn't know what to do, there was a higher authority to whom you could appeal. I think at one point Abby says that outsiders cannot understand the comfort that comes from being able to ask the Rebbe for advice in an emergency. I can really sympathise with that and I'm sure many others in this uncertain world would too.These two intertwined narratives, of gaining a trans identity whilst losing a community, have that universal thread - how often there is a tension in life between what we want for ourselves, and the relationships we have with others which are at turns both nurturing and restrictive.Abby's book is a fantastic and moving work of autobiography, and I am truly thankful that she has taken the time and emotional labour to share her story with the world. I do hope to read more from her on other topics - I can tell she must have many interesting thoughts to share with us.  Keeping in mind that I am coming from a goyish perspective...I thought it was a good book. I was surprised that Abby didn't become very spoiled, growing up as a "prince" of the Hasidim, descended from several lines of important rebbes. When she appeared to be a boy, she received a silk robe at age three, when a Hasidic man would normally receive the garment as an adult. She was offered a fur hat at a young age, too, but her mother thought that wearing a fur hat and white stockings when she still looked like a young boy would be too much.Abby was smart, but rebellious. Sometimes she would concentrate and study hard as a tween and teen, and sometimes she would cause a lot of trouble and torment her teachers. Her parents felt that there was something existential going on with her that made her act out so much, but didn't know that it was gender dysphoria. Abby herself didn't start to have the words for her feelings until she was in her late teens. She learned that gender was a social construct, and reflected on how the Hasidic communities in Williamsburg, Brooklyn were very intense about gender roles, and very repressed about sexuality. Young Hasidim were very sheltered until just before they got married, usually in their late teens.Abby found support from a group called Footsteps that helps ultra-orthodox Jews who want to leave that lifestyle to learn about the modern world and secular culture, including learning English. Most of her family stopped speaking to her after she explained to her father that she was a woman, not the man he'd thought she was. Abby was attending Columbia University by then, and got a lot of support from other students and her professors, and other friends she'd made in the secular world.There's a gap in time between her son's circumcision and when Abby says she's settled down into her life as a trans woman. She mentions getting divorced from her wife, but what must have been a turbulent time is brushed over without much comment. Another reviewer notes that Abby isn't supposed to talk about legal issues from that time, including custody of her son. Abby does mention having a great love for her son and wishing him a wonderful life.Abby seems to work hard to be fair to her parents through the narrative. They loved her, and tried to help her as she grew up and was rebellious and struggled with what they sensed was an existential issue. When Abby reveals that the existential issue was that she's transgender, that's too much for them, but she says that when she was a child and teen that they were loving and kind far beyond what could have been.Another caveat here is that I'm coming from this from a cis-gender perspective. From the perspective of being doubly an outsider, I thought this was good. Other people who have personal experience of gender issues and growing up in an insular religious society would have authority to judge the content better than my outside view of Abby's life.  This is Abby’s story of how she was raised as a boy in the Hasidic community of Williamsburg, New Jersey, all the while feeling intensely that she was a girl. Born into Hasidic “royalty” and being the eldest son in her family of twelve siblings, it was assumed she would become a religious leader in the community. Her story is that of a boy rebelling against the constraints of the ultra Orthodox Jewish beliefs, and also the coming out as a female in a society that didn’t understand, let alone approve, being transgender. To leave the community because of her questioning of her religious beliefs was enough on its own vanquish her from her family and home town; being transgender just raised her banishment to a whole new level.As a story of one boy’s rebellion against Hasidic culture and traditions, this was an interesting story. It was told fairly well, although there were a lot of names thrown in which made it a little hard to follow at times (especially because I’m not Jewish and the names and terminology was unfamiliar to me). I’ve read a couple of memoirs now about women leaving the Hasidic faith, and this one was on par with the others. Oddly enough, what drew me to this memoir (the fact that she realizes she’s actually female and leaves the community in order to live her life as a woman) was kind of secondary to the questioning of her faith. For 90% of the book, gender didn’t really matter: whether she was male or female, I think she would have rebelled against her strict religious upbringing. Although she keeps bringing up her gender throughout the story, it isn’t until the very end that she tackles the issue head on. Fair enough: she was sheltered in a community that didn’t allow internet, science books, or intermingling of the sexes. But once she finally does break free and seeks a new life as a woman, it just seemed to happen so quickly and suddenly the story ended. I had so many questions left unanswered: how did she cope emotionally as she transitioned? Her parents refuse to meet with her, yet they still talk to her on the phone... what is her mother’s thoughts on all this? What about her wife (now divorced) and child? How did she broach the subject with her wife when she told her she was leaving... and transitioning? I don’t know, I just feel like there were so many questions left unanswered at the end, which left a hole in what the story was supposed to be about.Nevertheless, it was still an interesting look at life in a Hasidic community, and unique in that she was able to view the culture/religion from both the male and female perspective firsthand.3.5 stars  I absolutely loved my time with this book, despite the moments of discomfort and also the moments of rage at some of the antiquated practices that were talked about in their religious upbringing. I personally never had any real sense of religion in my life and have always had more questions than I think could ever be logically answered, but I cannot prove or disprove whether there is a God or not. Nor do I want to try and prove or disprove that or try to change anyone's opinion.My absolute favorite part of this book, besides the raw emotion, was the way the story was told. This wasn't written like how a lot of non-fiction is written. The chapters weren't all 40-50 page, short novellas that felt like trudging through mud to get to the point. I believe the longest chapter was maybe 10 pages, and each chapter told a piece of the story perfectly in its own way.As a cis gender heterosexual male, I couldn't really relate with the struggles that the author went through growing up, but that is a big part of why I wanted to read this book. As someone who has never faced those struggles, I feel like this book did a really great job of expressing how deep and confusing those struggles were all throughout growing up. I tried to think back to moments in my childhood when there were any sort of struggles with growing up, or my best friend hitting puberty before me and how awkward that was, and then I tried imagining how much more awkward and a struggle that would have been if I were someone that was raised as a boy, in a boys body, all while knowing deep down that I was a girl. Despite not being able to relate based on my own personal life experiences, I think that Abby did a fantastic job explaining how it felt, in a way where I could at least imagine the scenario and what I might feel. Dealing with everything that Abby had to go through and then to come out of it strong and confident, with a huge support system and being able to tell her story, shows a level of strength that I don't think I personally possess.I also learned a lot about Judaism and the Ultra-Orthadox Hasidic Jewish culture that I probably would have never known had I not put the time in to reading this book. I still don't understand a lot of it, but if surrounding oneself with that faith is making the lives of others better and it isn't harming anyone, then who cares if I don't understand any of it.Thank you Abby for sharing your story and struggles. I personally learned a lot more than I was even hoping to learn when I picked this book up. Can't wait to see the rest of your story unfold!  This is not the first book I’ve read about a woman growing up in an insular community, nor is it the first memoir of a woman leaving an insular community and beginning her transition. There were themes I recognized from both Tara Westover’s Educated and Kate Bornstein’s A Queer and Pleasant Danger. But the timing and organization of this book left me with so many questions.Abby Stein goes into great detail about her childhood in Hasidic Williamsburg and she consistently nails home the point that she has known she was a girl since childhood. It is a thread that ran throughout her upbringing rather than a later in life discovery.She also does the heavy lifting of explaining religious customs to a secular audience. She spends a large amount of time going over the details of Hasidic holidays, rituals, and daily norms. But I feel like I came away learning more about Hasidism than about Abby.She finally leaves her community in the last chapter of the book, though we don’t really find out how. She credits the nonprofit Footsteps for helping her, but doesn’t walk us through the process of leaving. Who does she tell first? What was her next step? How did she decide to enroll in Columbia? What is she studying and why? And, what I most want to know: what is her relationship to Judaism today?After leaving Hasidism, Abby takes a few years to find herself before coming out to her family. This isn’t touched upon until the epilogue of the book! I thought that’s what the book was about!! And still, I have many many questions left unanswered. How did coming out change her relationships? Who from her family does she still speak to? Does she have a relationship with her ex-wife? Her son?? How did she choose her name and why? What was it like going through the physical changes accompanying hormone replacement therapy? These are fundamental questions I look for in a memoir.Ultimately, I have to offer some grace to Abby. She’s very young- not even 30 when the book was published- and English is her third language, one she learned pretty recently. The writing was simple but not in a way that felt unsophisticated, but rather helpful, explanatory, and conversational. It felt like a friend sharing stories, especially since it was so anecdotal. I just wish she filled in more of the color of her story. A transgender woman has to leave the Hasidic community, since the idea of transgender and the tightly proscribed gender roles of the community don't mix at all well.Like in Unorthodox by Deborah Feldman, Abby Stein give an inside view into the gender constrained Hasidic community in Brooklyn. She has the immense complication of being transgender, and being the first born 'son' of a rabbinic family. She has been aware of her inside gender for a long time, and struggled with all the male expectations of her family and community, while often wanting to be on the female side of the process. She did a good job of conveying the frustration of this, and the community's strict self-isolation made her unaware of transgender as something that exists and not just her personal issue.I have a dear church member who is a transgender woman who recently transitioned. She is so much more alive and has such a spring in her step now, than she did before her transition. Not everyone in her life has taken this well, much like with Abby. I perhaps have a greater understanding of my friend after reading Becoming Eve. I see parallels with the Black Lives Matter movement. The societal view of gays when I was growing up was horrific, much less any understanding of whole in the LGBTQ spectrum. I hope we have learned that the LGBTQ people are just that, people. I am also learning that people of color have also been short changed by societal training, whether we acknowledge it or participated in the injustice actively. Whether we call all children of God or fellow citizens, we need to do better, and the casual death of people of color at the hands of the police that are supposed to protect and serve all of us, does not protect or serve any of us. I have more listening and learning to do.   I wanted to LOVE this book. I wanted to give it 5 stars and give it a glowing review and hold it up as a great memoir that combines two of my psychological &amp; sociological interests--people leaving ultra-religious upbringings and people going through gender transition.Another review on this site said that this book is more about Stein's going Off the Derech (OTD) and less about her transition. For most of the book, I disagreed; most of this book is about Stein's realization of her gender identity and her rebellion against Hasidic Judaism as a result of this realization. Her gender confusion drove her OTD. This much I knew already, having heard her speak and reading some about her previously, which is why I thought the previous reviewer must be wrong.But when Stein reaches the point in her story where she learns about transgenderism and applies the label to herself, the book just ends. There is a scene with her father, and a description of a camping trip on Yom Kippur (which she gives a much better description of in her speeches), but not much else. No exploration of her identity, no description of struggling with her beliefs...And I get it: it is likely a very difficult subject, very new to Stein when she wrote this book, and unlike the rest of her life, she hadn't had a lot of time to reflect on it. But it is a part of her journey, and to claim that this book is about her transition, and then skip over how she got to the transition itself, is a bit misleading.I hope Stein eventually writes the book about the process she took to get out of her community, her divorce, her transition, and her finding of Judaism again. I will definitely read it. But this book, though a heat-wrenching tale, is not the book I thought I'd be reading.  SO GOOD. SO INTRESTING. SO PERSONAL. I recommend this so much!!! As a secular Jewish israeli-american queer girl, hearing this deep dive into aspects of the jewish community I know little about was thrilling. The author managed to be raw and somehow express both her love and hate for ultra-Orthodox Judism in a way that reflects her views while still giving the reader room to form their own opinion. Abby Stein, אם את קוראת את זה, את מדהימה!!Would have given 5 stars if not for the fact that after the immediate high of finishing the book, I realized that a lot of my biggest questions still remained unanswered. I recognize that in a memoir, it is the authors personal choice of what details to include or emit from the narrative, but seeing as the book framed itself as her journey of leaving the hasidic community and living as an openly trans woman, the book completely seemed to skip that part of the journey. She explains at length about her family history and childhood but the whole part of "how do you realize you are not alone" and "how do you leave everything you've ever know, including your family" was brushed over quite briefly in the epilogue... It is, of course, her choice of what personal details she wants to include (especially considering the fact that that is still recent and fresh) is understandable but... was still a bit of a hollow ending to an otherwise incredible book.(Other things that subtract a little bit are the wonky editing and at times clunky language-- but those can easily be chalked up to english not being her first language and its not even that big of a deal.)  Abby's book is brave and inspirational, for both Jews, queer people, and queer Jews (like me!).She writes in detail about the secretive life led by Hasidic people in New York City, revealing their practices, traditions and the reality of their lives. As a secular Jew, I found it difficult not to judge some of the things she writes about, like the rampant abuse and withholding of knowledge from the masses by their leaders. I had to be able to see past my own religious journey to understand the way Abby was brought up, and to see the beauty in addition to the pain.I particularly enjoyed reading Abby's struggle for freedom through her passion for reading and learning, as well as the love she shared with a boy at her yeshiva. In that sense, the memoir read almost like a work of fiction, with the young heroine struggling to find herself in a repressive upbringing.My only wish is that Abby had written more about her transition, both as a transgender woman and as a Hasidic Jew leaving that community. It felt like that entire "chapter" of her life (and the book) was missing, which I can only hope means she intends to write a sequel eventually. I also thought there was more room for introspective reflection on the events that she experienced, an attempt to make sense of the things that happened to her in hindsight, which I was surprised was not more common in the book.All in all, a must-read for LGBTQ+ Jews and those curious about Hasidic life.  Who could fail to be intrigued by the description of this book? Unfortunately, it doesn't deliver on its promise.Yes, it is a first person account of a dedicated, bright, ultra-orthodox student, studying to be a rabbi, who knows inside that HE is really meant to be a SHE. But it's NOT so much about inner turmoil as it is about student disruption in school -- a way for an unhappy boy to act out. The book is much more about his world of study, gender roles, and traditional rules of Hassidic Judaism than it is about being transgender. You'll find much more focus on and information about the differences between Hassidic sects and "royalty", their educational options, social and religious rituals, and marriage rites than the transgender issue. And at the point where the author decides to finally "come out" to friends and family, it's covered quickly and in less detail and depth than I expected. The book is also not particularly well-written. Granted the author has had a limited educational experience in English and is only now in college. But I would have expected an editor to have helped add more polish. On the plus side, if you're interested in the subject matter, it's a relatively short book.   4.5 rounded up. One thing I do need to explain his is the first transgendered memoir I've ever read. Since I personally have never felt the wish to be a different gender (except for when I was birthing my babies!) I never understood the internal struggle a transgendered person feels. Nor do I understand how this happens - physically, spiritually, emotionally. I'm not a very observant person but I do believe I'm spiritual so the idea of souls having gender has really settled on me. I read to my husband the lines from the book about souls having genders and sometimes they enter the wrong body. Both my husband and I just sat with it for so long, it was transforming for us. We are open minded, but we don't always understand. Which is why we are always trying to learn. Gendered souls entering the wrong body. That we can understand. I understand better now. I think my book is missing about 100 pages?We had this great in-depth first 20 years and then Eve gets married, has a kid and the book ends. I need to understand what happens after the wedding ceremony, she had this great relationship with her wife right off the bat, what has come of that? And what's her relationship with her son? Am I just waiting for part two? Repetitive to no end. There is very little worth to read in this book. Perhaps, the historical information about the formation of the Williamsburg enclave. I can understand the struggles this young man/woman had in his life, but he is no writer. Unfortunately, as I could not find the book in the library, I got its audible version and the narrator, Abby herself, read the book to me with a mannerism perhaps caricaturesque.And as yin yan, fortunately, I did not buy this book, there is not one sentence that is lyrical, that I wish I could read again, that it was inspiring. This is a tale told in childish words, in which a man/woman now relates the story of his upbringing calling his mom and dad Tatty, Mammy but as time passes by, as an adult, he continues to talk in a childish way, almost in an irritating voice. If any worth to read, it is because of the historical perspective it has in Hassidim in New York in the first few chapters. There must be a better written book about becoming a transgender. This is not it. If we want to know about escaping/living in a strict religious community I will never find a better book that fictional A complicated Kindness by Miriam Towes. Beautifully written, a masterpiece today and always.   A memoir of a son born into a Hasidic Family living with twelve other siblings. Although he was male he felt like a female in every other aspect. His would and spirit was female. These feelings of being female were with him since two years old. Whenever he played with toys it was dolls h preferred not trucks. He had to suppress his feelings until n he was twenty four years old. He had a Bar Mitzvah but wanted a Bat Mitzvah. He got married and had a child but wished he was the wife being pregnant and delivering the baby. Until he got the courage to go on the Internet, research people like him and finally came out as a trans! He started the process of female hormones, lost his family and started an education at Columbia University! Its a fascinating true story. We are taken through her religious life in great detail and the affect that her decision to leave the Hasidic world and her family had affected her. There was an amazing out pouring of support from the trans community! It was very brave of her to risk everything, however she couldn't go on suppressing who she was any longer. A great read!  This book was a bit disappointing, especially because it had been built up so much in reviews. Most of it is very good - Stein is a good writer, and it's extra impressive because English isn't her first language. I really enjoyed learning the ins-and-outs of the Hasidic world, though it helped that I already knew quite a lot about it so terminology wasn't a problem. The real issue was that this book is about her pre-transition childhood and not really anything else. She goes into incredible detail up to her marriage and the birth of her son, then skips ahead several years to a time when she's divorced her wife, moved away, got her GED and enrolled at Columbia, started living as a woman, and began medically transitioning and she comes out to her father, who never speaks to her again. Seeing as this book is pitched as a memoir as her life as a trans person, you would think the transitioning part of it would be a big part of the narrative. I understand that she's free to write whatever book she wants and is under no obligation to reveal every part of her life, but I think maybe the publicity department at Seal Press that wrote all of the marketing material was very misleading.  I’ve met Abby Stein multiple times at my Rabbi’s services so I might be biased but I thought this was phenomenal. This book was written from a place of such self-care and love when it could’ve so easily been written with hate. It was like Abby was saying to her younger self, take heart, you’re normal, and you’re right, and you’ll get to where you need to be. It was not without pain, though I can only imagine how much pain wasn’t written into these pages, but to me the main theme was incredible resilience. This book spoke to me on a less extreme but still pertinent personal level- I’m not Haredi, but still a queer Jew, finding my way out of Judaism, then back in through Kabbalah, still navigating my space and choosing to occupy intentional pluralistic spaces.Agree with the criticism that many parts crucial to the story were left out/glossed over- also okay with it, as it’s an autobiography. She doesn’t have an obligation to share the most private or painful parts and I felt plenty was shared in the book as is.   It was a very interesting read. As a Jew, I know a bit about the ultra-Orthodox communities but am fascinated to read the details from someone who lived that life. I cannot imagine how it must feel to not only not believe in what they are teaching you but also to know you were a different gender, a foreign concept to such a community. I was mostly interested in her story of leaving the community more than the transition part, but I agree with some of the other reviewers that a lot was left out - getting the divorce, the process of transitioning, getting into Columbia, etc. (I did see in an interview that she is keeping mum about her son, and he can tell his story if he wishes when he is 18.) I would be interested in reading more and how she is faring in her new world. As a side note, the one tidbit that stuck out to me the most about their lifestyle was the stockings. A marriage match almost didn't happen because they couldn't agree on what color stockings the bride-to-be would wear once she married! That level of detail of control over ones life still astounds me!  The title is pretty misleading as it represents no more than 10% of the book's content. It's more about a boy who rebels against orthodoxy, with the occasional statement of "I'm a girl, because..." thrown here and there, to remind us that it has to do with gender identity issues and not with atheism or theistic mysticism.I was expecting to learn more about the inner gender identity experience of the author - the specific thoughts and feelings that drove, sustained and generally represented the author's gender dysphoria.But all I received was an instance of spiteful penis poking, a few moments in which the author expressed a desire to be a woman, and the repetition of "I am/was a girl" or "The fact that I am/was a girl" throughout the book. This, for me, is not good enough to support anyone's claim that they're a woman - even more so when no definition of the term was provided at any point in the book.P.s. the audioversion of the book is a bit hard to listen to, as the author has an accent, a slight speech impediment and a squeakish voice tone.  Stein has a fascinating story to tell - and there are two 'coming out' stories she has here. One about leaving her ultra-religious Hasidic home and community, and the other about coming out as transgender.Becoming Eve really only deals with the first storyline. Of Stein's struggles with religion and dealing with how the very rigid gender stereotypes of the Hasidic community affected her sense of self and how she related to her religion. Again, this is a fascinating story to read about, and one that should be told, but Stein isn't the best memoirist and much of this comes across as stilted and repetitive. I'm sure this story isn't over and Stein has more to say. I am looking forward to continuing to read about her journey. I would recommend this for those who enjoy reading about secretive religious communities, but don't expect anything earth shattering here in regards to story or writing.  I found Abby’s story compelling and I was fascinated by the details of her early life. I really liked how although she was uncomfortable in her own skin, she didn’t put down her parents, siblings or the community. While reading, I had to skip over a lot of the details, especially with all the names. I could understand why it’s important to include them, it really gave a full picture of just how big and intertwined the extended families are, it was too much detail and I found myself either referencing back or skipping bits with all the names. I also felt like I only got parts of the story. I was especially missing the part after marriage, I’m so curious what the relationship with his wife was at the time and what the conversation was like when leaving the community. I can understand that part of the memoir was probably left out for the family’s privacy, but it did leave me wanting to know more. Overall, I would recommend this compelling read.  As someone who came into Orthodox Judaism as an adult, I found this book to be so interesting. I never read any personal account of anyone leaving the chassidic community before. Having Ms. Stein go into so much detail on her upbringing was fascinating. The bulk of the book focuses on Ms. Stein's formative years: childhood up until marriage. **Spoiler** There is not much material at all on her actual transition. Just the life that lead up to it. This is also very much a personal account. Due to the circumstances, (when an Orthodox Jewish community member goes 'off the derech', or ceases being religious/as religious, they are shunned; much more definitely for those who do this and openly LGBQT) we do not get much insight on anyone else's opinion or perception.Overall I think that this is an important book to read for anyone who is interested in LGBQT Jews and/or how some segments of the Jewish community deal with (or fail to deal with) this issue.  This is an absolutely unique story about an ultra orthodox Jewish woman who was born as a male, and eventually leaves the community and transitions to become a woman. I am always fascinated to learn about other cultures and ways of life, and as a reform Jew, the laws and customs of ultra Orthodox Jews are particularly interesting to me. They are at once a bit familiar and completely foreign. Abby is a strong, smart and passionate woman and it’s incredible that she was able to make this transition.I felt the book itself was missing quite a bit of detail about Abby’s actual transitions out of Judaism and to become a woman. Most of the book focuses on her life and experience growing up in the Ultra Orthodox Jewish community. Hopefully she will write a sequel.This is a story that needed to be told, I’m glad I read it.  This memoir, written by a former Ultra Orthodox man whose family is descended from one of the holiest Orthodox rabbis in the world, describes what it is like to be in the wrong body. Even at 3 years of age, he knew that he was supposed to be a girl, but growing up in the Ultra Orthodox community made that thought impossible. Throughout his life, up to his 20s, he struggled with his sexual identity, not knowing there were others who felt the same way. After he married and had a child he realized he had to transition out of the community and into becoming a female.Very simply told, this fast-reading book was extremely interesting . It made me think about how people are so tied to their identities that they cannot break away, even to the point of never seeing or speaking to their children again.The book concluded too quickly I felt, but I really liked reading it.  The two memoirs seemed to have little in common at first glance. Yet, underlying the authors’ very different lives is a similar theme: the need to adjust to a major life change. In “Becoming Eve: My Journey From Ultra-Orthodox Rabbi to Transgendered Woman” (Seal Press), Abby Chava Stein discusses not only why she left Orthodox Judaism, but decided to transition to her true gender. Jason B. Rosenthal, who was blindsided when his wife, Amy Krause Rosenthal, died of ovarian cancer, writes about the difficulty of adjusting to the loss of his soulmate in “My Wife Said You May Want to Marry Me” (Harper).See the rest of my review at https://www.thereportergroup.org/past...  I really enjoyed this book, as I have others in the OTD genre although this is the first I have read that combines the OTD struggle with issues of gender identity. My only criticism was that I felt like the story ended a little abruptly. Abby meets with her Tati with the help of a supportive Rabbi, and the dad is struggling (?) to accomodate this information about her gender identity, and says he'll have to talk about it with the Rabbi and decide what to tell her mother. And that's about the end of the story except for what's in the Epilogue. I really would have wanted to hear more about how Abby navigated/navigates her relationship with her family and community. (this was the most heartbreaking part, for me, of All Who Go Do Not Return by Shulem Deen). Everyone's story is different and they don't have to all read the same, but I was still longing for more info there.   I actually read most of this book yesterday---Trans Day of Visibility---but I finished it this afternoon. It's a well-written memoir, and Abby Stein has definitely had a life worth reading about so far. That said, it's worth noting that it almost entirely focuses on her life growing up in the Hasidic community in Brooklyn, and only a few dozen pages at the end discuss her life after she discovered the existence of the word "transgender" and started to consider leaving the community and actually transitioning. I would have been very interested to read more about her process of leaving the community and of coming out, and how she came to realize this was something she could and needed to do.  Wow, what a story! This is a perfect example of intersectional issues come to life. Not only does Abby grow up with the expectation of becoming a rabbi in an ultra-orthodox Jewish community, she also realizes at an early age that she identifies as a girl (despite what her parents and the community think). I can't imagine it, and I'm so proud of how loving, understanding, and empathetic she is towards others, even after all the experiences in her life, and at such a young age.I like how the book is narrated in a way that is frank and honest, while explaining the aspects of the community that might be unknown to outsiders. I found it easy to empathize, though my life doesn't relate at all. A captivating story! I read this powerful biography in one sitting over Shabbat. Stein tells a story that's all too real, of someone who comes close to losing her religion, but finds solace and companionship with an understanding community of Jews who are open and accepting. She portrays a Hasidic community that's both beautiful in its celebrations and family connections, and ugly in its rejection of those who don't fit in. It could have been a tale of any closed religious community and belief system, whether in Williamsburg or Wyoming or Iran.All communities are multi-faceted and multi-layered, and kudos to Stein for telling her story with love and an appreciation for what she had, what she left behind, and the life she's created for herself now.  Heartfelt story of a beautiful journeyWhen I first started reading this book I didn’t know what to expect. But the more I read the more I realized what a hard journey this was for the author. She not only dealt with her feelings of being a woman instead of a man, but also with the change in her life of giving up so much of what was her history and upbringing. I was a bit disappointed when 90% of the book just dealt with explaining the Hasidic community along with the laws and rituals. I suppose someone who doesn’t know about them will find them interesting and extreme. I wanted to know more in depth on how Eve handled this change. I felt there was more we didn’t learn. Perhaps there will be a sequel to the book. #threestars #becomingeve  Found this very hard to put down. Things I expect to love: 1) memoirs of trans experience, 2) religious memoirs, 3) coming of age memoirs. It exceeded my expectations.Many books about Hasidism are written from a very strong anti- or pro- perspective and this is a lot more balanced. This author had a loving family and a good childhood that are inextricable from her religious upbringing, and also her religious upbringing was quite harmful to her. Both are shown. And she comes through as morally centered, self-aware, and ... emotionally generous I think is the right phrase. Partly by being honest and self-critical about her own failings, without beating herself up for them.I really really enjoyed reading this book. So glad it came my way.  I learned a lot about the customs of Hasidic Jews from this book, and I admire Abby's bravery in finding a new way and becoming her true self. Her transition story isn't told until the very end, which is part of why this book is titled "Becoming Eve." I have a feeling that the rest of the story is still planning to be told. I was struck by her admission that she felt like a girl from a very young age, despite being born into a society that has extremely distinctive male/female expectations. LGBTQ naysayers tend to point to mainstream society as corrupting young minds. That clearly wasn't/couldn't be the case for Abby. This was a super quick read. It does tend to jump around a bit, but the story is powerful and well written.  This was an absolutely remarkable memoir. I listened to the audiobook version (narrated by the author) and had a very difficult time putting the book down when I had to move on to do other things. There are some things I wish she had covered that she completely skipped over at the end, but given the things she DID talk about, I think this was out of a respect for the privacy of other people involved. It's quite tough when you publish a memoir and other key people are still alive. So yes, I would have loved to have known a lot more about her spouse (i.e. were here chances at re-marrying harmed?) and her son (what will happen when he wants to be matched + married?) and these things were not discussed. Again, that aside, this really was a remarkable book.  it feels wrong to rate such a deeply personal memoir, so i won’t. but i will say that although i enjoyed the stories from abby’s early life, and i learned quite a few new things about hasidic judaism, i felt like her later life wasn’t delved into quite so much. it’s strange to me that the details of abby’s actual transition out of ultra-orthodoxy and her transition into womanhood are both largely left out of the narrative, despite these being the main events the book was marketed to be about. at the end of the day, it’s her memoir, so of course it is up to her what she chooses to share or leave out. but as a reader i felt like there were a few gaps in the story, and i was left wanting a little bit more.  This memoir is about a fascinating topic and left me feeling nothing. I think the reason is that the author skipped the most painful and emotional parts of the story. The book is supposed to be about her journey from the Hasidic man to transgender woman. However, both her exodus from the community and transition to woman were glossed over in a few sentences. The majority of the book is about her childhood in Williamsburg which was interesting, but not what I thought the book was about. Also, the author's first language is Yiddish, so the writing was a bit simple and clunky. Overall, I wanted and expected so much more from this read.  At the end, I could feel the tears that the author must have had. The emotion was so tangible that I felt like I was the one writing. Now, her writing style is different from what most are probably used to: she starts explaining something and then gives the background info, followed by the final point. This is different from the flow of background to point, but it worked for this book.I thought that this story was different from anything on the market currently and is a much needed voice. To have a voice and have limitations on it is the death of a soul, but Abby rose above this. I’m SO proud of her!   I listened on audible, narrated by the author. An interesting story of an ultra- orthodox boy who always felt like he was a girl made extremely difficult to understand and accept given the strong gender roles and few deviations growing up in this world. For me, the story jumped around a lot, there were many grammatical errors and Abby Stein left out how she left her wife and the relationship she has or does not have with her son. Mostly interesting because there are very few deviations in the ultra orthodox community. Dealing with this/ growing up in that space and not being able to live within the confines of it is interesting but I felt the story could have been told better  This memoir was both fascinating and frustrating at the same time. There was an intense amount of detail on things like the slightly different types of clothing worn by each Hassidic group (e.g. black tights vs grey tights vs beige tights) and these details proceeded up to the point of the birth of the author’s son. The massive decisions to leave the community and subsequently transition to female were handled more like an afterthought, when it remains clear that they were shattering to the author’s life and to her family’s. Perhaps they remain too sensitive to do more than address superficially, but I felt that the heart of this short part near the end of the book was too hidden.   I absolutely loved BECOMING EVE. I listened to the audiobook, which is narrated by the author, and I would highly recommend reading it that way. Stein has such an incredible writing style. I know this is an audiobook review cliche, but between the writing style and Stein narrating, it feels like you're sitting in her living room chatting over a cup of tea. I went into BECOMING EVE knowing absolutely nothing about Hasidic Judaism, and I really appreciated how patiently and carefully Stein explains the religion and culture. She operates from the assumption that the reader doesn't know the terminology, but doesn't oversimplify anything.  Fascinating. The subtitle pretty much sums up the memoir in a stripped-down way. Stein tells not only her own story but also gives us an insider's look at the contemporary Hasidic community in New York. Stein also talks about her spiritual/religious uncertainties, her current relationship with Judaism, and the issues surrounding leaving an isolated ultra-orthodox sect and community. She read her own audiobook with clarity and expression. Her accent underscores the fact that although born and raised in New York, English is not her first language. Thanks to the audiobook publisher and Libro.fm for the audio review copy. I can't recommend this enough.  This was a frustrating book. I do recommend reading it if you have interest - it was a fascinating window on the Hasidic community, and I got a real sense of what it was like for Abby to grow up trans in a community that is so rigidly gendered by the sex people are assigned at birth. But it felt like half of the story I thought I was getting - it basically ends at her marriage, with a brief mention of the birth of her son, then in a few pages explains that she left the Hasidic community (and her marriage) and began openly expressing her gender identity. If anything the book covers her journey TO being an ultra-orthodox rabbi.  Stein is an engaging writer who speaks candidly about both the devotion and the repression she remembers from her Hasidic upbringing. Her community was loving and close-knit but rigid. The narrative moved along quickly. Her dysphoria struggle and loneliness were leavened with moments of humor and affection for her community. I hesitated between 3-4 stars for this book because of its structural weakness at the end. The story of how she actually left Orthodoxy is completely skipped over. Since much of the book's drama comes from her evolving beliefs and how they are tested against reality, I wanted to know something about where she landed, spiritually speaking.  I met Abby a while ago at CU Hillel and was mystified when she told me she was not an international student, but actually from New York City. I've wanted to read her memoir for some time, and really enjoyed it. Uniquely, Abby's journey through Hasidic Judaism is not one to find herself, but to express her individuality and to justify things she has known about herself since early childhood--at first, she hoped to do that within or using Hasidic wisdom, but later found the need to move away from her community. Her memoir is detailed, thoughtful, and heartfelt. All of the minutiae she includes about the controversies surrounding Hasidic dress codes and other norms are also fascinating.   This was a shocker to me as I did not think I would like this book at all. The Hasidic background and details were so interesting to me. I really enjoyed hearing about the authors's spiritual journey and into the Jewish mystics. I learned a lot about Hasidic. The 2nd part of this book is the author's climb into the idea of transgender being that his soul was born into the wrong gender/body. She uses Jewish teachings to back their beliefs. It made a solid case for transgender studies and made me think. This books was not what I was expecting. Great storytelling and opening my eyes to Hasidic Jews and transgender beliefs.  See my notes on my blog www.bookishinthemitten.com. I spent most of this book waiting for that point when Abby came out as transgender, treating the text prior to this as exposition while waiting for her to get the point. This was faulty reading on my part. I wish I had realized early on that while it was the story of Abby's gender transition, and I believe just as importantly for Abby, the story of her path out of her Hasidic community and into a Judaism she can embrace, and which embraces her.   I would give this a 4.5 if Goodreads allowed half-stars. I am fascinated by people who leave ultra-religious communities, particularly the ultra-Orthodox. Having been raised Modern Orthodox, I personally have had many grapples with my religion at this level, so I can't imagine life in such an even more restrictive setting. What sets this memoir apart from other books and films about leaving the Satmar community is that Stein is transgender. I wish she would have talked more about her life after leaving the community and transitioning, but perhaps that will be another book.  A moving book but while the cover makes you think that the book is about the author's gender transition, it mostly focused on her life as an Orthodox Jewish boy and young man before transitioning to female. I can't imagine living in such an isolated environment, mere minutes from NYC, and being unable to even speak English. That is actually the thing in the book that I found more mind-boggling than anything else. That the entire Orthodox community in Williamsburg, Brooklyn is so cut off from the modern world. I had no idea.  Una biografia molto interessante. Una "doppia" transizione, doppiamente difficile in quanto trasizione di genere e completa transizione culturale. Non è banale fare i conti con la disforia di genere in una società così autoreferenziale ed isolata dalla modernità come la comunità ultraortodossa di New York. Mancano anche le parole per definire e definirsi. Letto tutto di un fiato. Scritto in modo semplice e agevole con i giusti accenti sulle problematiche senza negare nulla delle proprie radici e della propria vita precedente.  I wanted to read this book after I heard Eve speak on a Zoom discussion about leaving the Orthodox community. The book was interesting and I learned a lot about the ultra Orthodox way of life. Eve was raised as a boy in an extremely religious environment. She always felt that she was a girl in a boy’s body . The book describes her struggles and transition as future rabbi to a non religious Jewish woman. I took away a star because I didn’t like the story going back and forth in time. The sequence of events became a little confusing.  I really enjoyed this memoir about a woman who was born into an ultra-orthodox family as a man. Obvious problem. The book centers on her childhood as an excellent student and a rebel and her eventual reckoning with who she is. What differed for her in contrast to other memoirs about leaving the Hasidic community is that Abby loved studying Judaism. She just knew there was no place for a transgender person in the community. What kept me from giving it that the fifth star was the pacing. I have many unanswered questions about how some major life events and relationships that she left outplayed out before and after she left. I can only assume there is another memoir on its way...  Rabbi Abby Chabad Stein gave an amazing virtual presentation to my synagogue community this past summer. It was attended by well over 100 interested people who varied in age and gender. She is an eloquent insightful presenter and now I can say author as well. Her book is well written (even with a couple of misspellings that I attribute to her newly embraced leaning to speak read and wrote in English but should have been caught by her editors). I learned so much about the Hasidic community hen she spoke and even much more in this book. I cannot recommend it enough.  This is two books in one: a 20 year old Hasidic man, married only 10 months earlier, who has self identified as female most of “their” life, at the time of the circumcision ceremony of his son, decides to come out and leave the community as well. Most of the book is leading up to this point and is an account of what growing up as a chassid was like. From my perspective the religious issues are dealt with fairly The coming out portion is more of an epilogue. The role of facebook posting in helping this individual new to the internet in gaining support for the new identity is also interesting.  My only critique of this book is that the ending felt very abrupt. The pacing of her story felt very consistent, and then all of a sudden it was the last couple of pages and it was over. I can completely understand that that is probably the most painful part of her life, so she didn't want / wasn't able to include as many details, but the richness of the rest of the book left me feeling a little disappointed with how she ended it. Overall though, really enjoyed this memoir, and I learned so much about Hasidism from her descriptions.  I liked this much better than Unorthodox; the author had positive feelings about Judaism and family and did not seem as resentful or angry with an ax to grind. She just had to find her place in the world, and she could express herself positively. She did a great job in her writing of balancing explanation with narrative. I appreciated her description of the interplay among the various sects and the hierarchies involved (and the way everyone was related!). She also did a great job in showing how clear she was -- from an early age -- that she was, in fact, a girl.  This was an amazing story. I couldn't stop, so I finished it in one day. The last time a book made me feel this way, like my eyes have been pried open, was when I read Tara Westover's "Educated." I had no idea of all the ways Hasidic Judaism differed from other types of Judaism (not that I have a strong idea of that, either). Reading and understanding the difficulties Abby had to overcome is invaluable. Throughout the book, she described how she knew who she was, but she kept trying to push it down, to ignore it. I think this is a common theme among the transgender community. The author has an interesting story to tell, but I felt like we spent a lot of time describing yeshiva school and very little time exploring the big transitions : out of faith and from male to female. Both of those came very abruptly in the last chapter. I was left with a lot of questions: What was her faith like now? What happened with her wife? What kind of relationship does she have with her son? The pacing felt off and the memoir was heavy on the description and light on the emotional heft.   Fascinating read from the point of view of gender identification but also Hasidic Judaism and how children are raised in that closed closed community. Ms. Stein speaks widely on her experiences but the book talks mostly about her time in school. The anecdotes from her time in yeshiva are funny and heart-breaking. The book peters out towards the end - I wish there was more around her decision to finally transition and leave the Hasidic community. Hopefully we'll get part 2 of her journey sometime.   This is quite interesting seeing as it opens a door into a world that’s so different from my own. It was interesting to hear what rebellion and education were like for Abby. I found it a bit weird how the book ended. So much detail, sometimes almost too much name dropping and explaining of some parts, but then it skips over the experience of being married and jumps to a very short mention of the birth of a son, and then another hop to such an undetailed section on moving into the secular community. Maybe another book is coming?  I find it difficult to rate this book, because of the very personal story behind it (and one that is important to be shared!). Unfortunately, and strangely, the storytelling feels somewhat ‘unpersonal’. It kind of babbles on, with lots of repition and even more (family)names that blurr most of the story. I also question why there’s a major timegap between the last chapter and the epilogue. The moment you are reading towards (the leaving of the community) is left out, for reasons that are not made clear.  An interesting personal narrative however I wish the author would have gone into more detail about her experience through her transition, divorce, deciding to go to college, career choices after being raised so secluded, her relationship with her family that does keep in contact etc. I understand such information is highly personal and at the time this book was written all very recent, but having the main narrative end only as she realizes that something has to change in her life was a bit of a let down in an otherwise engaging and fascinating read.  i really enjoyed this deep look into hasidic judaism and working through gender dysphoria in a society with no exposure to queer culture and deep gender segregation. but the book ends just as she's leaving, with her freer life sent to the epilogue. i wish there had been more exploration of leaving itself and of getting initiated into the larger world. i was really intrigued to learn about finding acceptance through kabbalah and about the different sects of hasidism. it's definitely worth a listen.  Fascinating memoir about a woman who was raised to become a rabbi; she was descended from generations of rabbinical tradition. She left the Orthodox Jewish community, where men thank God each day for not being born a woman…and then she transitioned into becoming a woman. Pivotal in her coming out was seeing her baby boy get circumcised. A lot got left out in the telling…the book races to the end and we don’t really know what kind of relationships she has now with her family, especially her son and ex-wife.  A riveting memoir - from her earliest memories Abby born into a Hasidic Dynasty knew she was not whom her parents believed her to be. Abby, known as Yisroel Avrom born a male and raised to be a Torah scholar knew her soul and physical body did not align. She also knew that her life held bigger promises than just sitting and learning the Talmud, a collection of writings that covers the full gamut of Jewish law and tradition. This book, her journey from male to female and from leaving the insular world of Hasidic Jewry is full of heartbreak and newfound joy. I was mesmerized.  "Becoming Eve" by Abby Chava Stein is an autobiography. The author shares her lifestory about being raised as a Hasidic boy, while always knowing she was a girl. The book was extremely insightful and intelligent. The reader gains an understanding of the beauty and deeply religious Hasidic customs. Abby's insight, depth, intelligence, and pain are prevalent throughout the autobiography. This was the first book or story I've read about a Hasidic person and their transgender identity and I thoroughly enjoyed it. 9/10 I don't have much context outside of this book regarding hasidic Judaism, but the gender segregation reminds me of other contexts I'm familiar with. It was also interesting because it felt like the school to prison pipeline but without the prisons. I do kind of wonder whether some of the stories got approved by other people or not.It was interesting to hear about how she studied &amp; what she studied. I'm not Jewish, so I'm not educated, but if I were to study, I think I'd be looking to this for inspiration. Or Romemu?  The subtitle covers the basic plot. It was an interesting story, and she is definitely a brave woman, but I really wished she talked more about how she actually left the Hasidic community and found her way to the affirming Reform community she mentions in the afterward. She spent too much time on some of her early memories and I didn't like how the timeline jumped around a bit. That being said, if she writes another book I'd definitely read it.  I Don't Think I Want to Meet HerYes it's her story but it bothered me that she expressed zero awareness about the feelings of the people around her. If she was less self involved she might have been less surprised that her family reacted as it did. And I might want to meet her if she had expressed some concern or interest in how her actions would impact those who loved her. But she didn't and so I don't.   I love de-conversion stories. Every one is so remarkable, unique, and courageous. This one has the added complexity of acute gender dysphoria. Coming from an author who barely spoke English ten years ago, this is an impressive memoir! It's also sweet and upbeat, easy to read. I do wish the author had delved more into her divorce and family relations after she went off the derech, but at the same time, I understand wanting to keep those details private.  Amazing! Fascinating! Insightful! Empowering! Thought provoking! Encouraging! Spiritually uplifting!!A wonderful book that has soo much depth and nuances, this isn’t a regular celebrity memoir but a honest and sincere personal journey that is not shallow and superficial but brimming with candor , joy , sorrow and celebration .Abbey always has good things to say and in person she’s a warm and friendly women   Stein's story isn't very new-- leaving ultra-religious communities, and coming out as transgender, are both popular memoir subjects. This is a slight book, follows a predictable pattern, and it falls short a few times. That said, overall it's well done and a good story. You'll tear through it. I appreciated her depiction of the Hasidic community and her struggles growing up in it. And glad she can now be who she is.  This was a nice, quick read that was an incredibly interesting look into Hasidic life (something I’m not very familiar with). Reading through it, the writing fell flat for me, and I felt as though it wrapped up much quicker than I had hoped—I would have liked to hear more about her decision to leave the community and her experience transitioning! That said, I learned a lot and I’m excited to attend an event with Abby soon to hear more of her story.  I got to hear Abby speak to our congregation. She’s brilliant, warm and wonderful. I loved this book. I loved the window into her live and the Hasidic community she grew up in. I was left wanting for more information about life after she left. I understand she needs to protect her family, her former wife and her son. Alas, the voyeur in me wants to know more. I debated 4 or 5 stars. The desire for more had me settle with four stars. A must read!  An unsatisfying and routinely written memoir about a transgendered orthodox Jewish boy and her coming out journey in becoming a woman. We don't need to read about rigidness of being Orthodox. We are more interested in her revelations to friends and family which we are only given only tidbits. Plus, Abby Stein's book fails to explain how she was able to marry another woman and consumate the marriage. The ending seems rushed with a cop out "to be continued" coda.   Another first person Trans narrative?? This one has an interesting perspective because Eve was raise din the ultra-Orthodox communities of Brooklyn and Monsey, NY. She describes these communities as being the most gender segregated communities in the USA. Almost all of the book is about her growing up as a person everyone thought was a boy / young man, but she knew from her earliest memories that she was a girl. I couldn't put it down!  It was interesting to learn what life, school, and family life is like for ultra-orthodox Jews in Brooklyn. But the author, born a male who always thought he was a girl, did not provide enough details about her transitioning from male to female or the effect of being shunned by his family and community when he left to transition to female and become her true self. I would like to have learned what type of relationship she has with her former wife, child, 12 siblings, parents, etc.   Despite coming from a different religious background (I was raised Pentecostal) - and not one so secluded as the various Hasidic communities - there was much that resonated with my experience and Abby Stein's. The book ends on a very somber note with her family's rejection of her at the beginning of her medical transition. I hope to see a follow-up to see how things have developed and continue to unfold in her life - to the degree she deems it appropriate.   A story of how a boy grows up in one of the most conservative and closed communities in the world, among the Hasidic Jews of New York City. The author has conflicting feelings on her identity growing up and realizes that she is a woman. It was interesting to read about the different practices of the Hasidic community in New York City and the rituals they do. This book reveals an insider look of one of the most secretive religious communities within New York City.   The first 75% of the book focuses on understanding the ultra-Orthodox Jewish community where the author begins her life. Although this includes what it was like to think of herself as a girl but be treated as a boy, it is very lifeless and dull (maybe it was supposed to be that way). The last 25% is much more engaging and I would have liked it to provide more depth re: the transition. The end is very abrupt. Fascinating insight from a unique (trans)gender perspective95% a fascinating insight into Hasidic New York Jewish life incl. the Kabbalah (Jewish mysticism), the brief description of Abby leaving the community then transitioning is right at the end with few details and, as other reviewers have said, sets thing up for a sequel.  3 1/2 ⭐️ rounded up. It’s interesting enough...but it is really much more about the author’s uncomfortable and unfulfilling life in the Hasidic world than her transition to a trans woman. Would have liked more balance to the story because she is clearly so much happier now that she gets to live life as her authentic self.   This was a fascinating story, and a quick read, but I wished it was 100 pages longer! Ms. Stein writes 22 chapters chronicling her life as a boy growing up in the Hasidic community, but her transition to becoming a woman was relegated to just the Epilogue. I was hoping for more of a memoir about her transition out of Hasidism AND from man to woman. Maybe she’s saving all that for another book.  I loved this well written book which gives us view into a Hasidic Rabbi who was not only "off the derech" but transgender as well. It is heart breaking to realize Abby will not have contact with family in the future. I know there will be a sequel and I will be sure to read it. I have heard Abby interviewed and she is remarkable.   Ok I'm a sucker for books about people who leave religious cults, particularly Jewish ones. So when I heard about this book I had to read it. And I found Eve's perspective to be a fresh one in this. I thought it was interesting that in such a restrictive society she still was had such body dismorphism. I found her story so compelling and I was rooting for her all along  Stein's autobiography discusses her transition from Hasidic male to a transgender woman. The book traces her life in her Hasidic community and the expectations required while she struggled with her gender identity without ever understanding exactly how to to name it. In the end her search for meaning and knowledge allowed her to name who she was.   I really enjoyed reading this autobiography. It was well written. I know a trans woman and a trans boy and some of this account resonates with their struggles. It’s a difficult subject in general, but especially for a person of faith. Really pleased this book popped into my suggestions list, it was a really good read.   While I appreciate Stein's struggles, assertive questions, and strength I did not find her to be a particularly skilled author. I listened to the audiobook, which Stein reads herself although she's not a particularly skilled voice actress either. Interviews with her, hosted by professional entertainers, have been much more engaging.  This book was really good. I enjoyed the story of fundamentalist Judaism and trans-ness. I recently came out and was looking for more trans narratives to read because I want to hear stories about other trans women. There are so few trans memoirs that it is extremely difficult to find any when you google the term “trans memoirs” like 5 come up. I really liked this story though   I learned about her in a class and was fascinated. Her interviews are so interesting and I was looking forward to reading her book. I only give it 1 star because it’s not really much about her trans journey, it’s more a detailed account of Hasidic culture. She discusses her transition on the last 4 pages and very abruptly  Very well written, but it was disturbing that she divorces her wife and doesn't address the effect it might have had on her wife and son. It's almost as an aside "oh I divorced my wife". If she'd said "yeah my wife and son were probably hurt but that's their problem" it would be one thing, but she doesn't say anything about it at all. Way too much religious info and family tree background and not enough “meat” as to her feelings on being a girl. Transition from husband to leaving the community to becoming a woman was too abrupt - she made it sound so easy but I know from books and movies just how difficult and devastating it really is .  My only beef with this book is that she skips straight from her decision to leave the Hasidic community to two years later when she came out as trans. I would have loved to read another 400 pages about those two years. This was a great book and Abby Stein is an amazing woman. I can't wait to read whatever she writes next!  Provides a fascinating look into the lives of Ultra Orthodox Jewish community in Williamsburg, NY. As a child, the author knew from an incredibly young age that she was a girl, but within an Orthodox fundamentalist community, she had nowhere to turn to find the language or support to express who she was. Tender, aching, triumphant.  Very interesting autobiography. Learned more than I wanted about Ultra-Orthodoxy, thats for sure. But amazing to me that she had the strength to be true to herself &amp; get away from her life. Her new life outside the confines of her community, has led her to writing, speaking, promoting her causes in a very brave way.  I wanted to love this - such a compelling story and a brave woman living her truth. But it fell flat at the end when she left the Hasidic community and came out as trans. There were no details about the aftermath with her family, wife, son. It just skipped over so much time and so many details after going into so much depth of much of her Hasidic life. And it just felt incomplete in so many ways.  This book was a quick read; almost too quick. I wanted to hear more about the transition from a religious life to how Abby lives now. The whole book was spent on Abby’s pre-trans life. Did she not want to write about how she actually transitioned? I would have loved to hear that part of the story. She went from having a baby to poof I’m living as a woman. I hope she writes a part 2 some day.  Interesting and lovely memoir. Very well written, with lots of compassion for those who raised the author (parents and beyond) and respect for her former traditions and teachings (seemingly...I know an outsider can't truly determine whether that's the case or not). There's a lot of love in this book, I could feel that.  I found this book to be amazing. I learned so much about Hasidic faith and culture, and it was also my first time reading the story of a trans person's struggle with their gender identity and eventual transition. Highly recommended! I fascinating story of a trans girl growing up in a community which gives her no vocabulary to express this. Other reviews have commented on the abrupt ending but I think that’s deliberate and I suspect volume two will be on its way It is a good book, but it doesn’t really say anything how she left the community or anything much what happened after. Only few last pages.. also, jumping in a timeline was a bit disturbing in places. There's so many details that are missing about her actual leaving of her community. What did she tell her wife? How did she feel in the secular world? It's so weird considering the explicit details in some of the discussions of sex.  Very interesting glimpse into the internal and external life of Abby Stien. The writing is straightforward, direct, and enjoyable. Abby struggles not only with her sense of gender, but also with her spirituality. She describes all of this in substantial and thoughtful prose. Discovering that you were born as the wrong gender is a huge challenge. Being the wrong gender in an ultra orthodox community is beyond huge. I just wonder why would Hashem in his infinite wisdom such a thing to happen.  CompellingThis book is a wonderful story about leaving a Hasidic upbringing and exploring your true self, as a transgender person. Well written, engaging and deeply disturbing for the rejection that one will likely feel upon leaving the Hasidic community forever.   I picked this book up by chance and didn't put it down for two days. It is such a fascinating, complex, heartbreaking glimpse into being queer in an ultra-orthodox community. I loved Abby's passion obvious passion for knowledge and her sense of humor, justice, and love in the book.  Fascinating and Highly PersonalAbby Stein provides a fascinating and highly personal account of her life. She lays bare her soul as she describes wrestling with her gender identification. The book ended abruptly without any information about how she told her wife and child about leaving the community. It would have been important to give the reader some insight as to what transpired after she left, how she ended up at Columbia as a woman and how her life is now.  This is a captivating true story about a Hasidic man deciding to finally live life as the woman he was born to be. The only part that was left out was how he managed to leave his wife and son. The story is very detailed and specific but that part is skipped over.  I’ve read as many accounts of life as a queer person of faith as I can find. However, most are from a Christian perspective. Abby Stein’s memoir is a touching perspective and window into the very géndered Hasidic world, and her struggle to figure out faith and identity.  Heartfelt and honest. I loved to listen to Abby read her own words, and it was written in such a way that it gave me the feeling of catching up with a close friend after a decade apart. Wonderful book, cannot recommend enough. -Sweet-Inspiring-Coming of Age-First Love-Family Connections, close family ties, family rejection-Spirituality-Great look into the life of a transgender woman-First person account - empathy building  Very powerful book. I heard the author speak and then read the book a few weeks later.l. I completed in less than 24 hours. Well written and extremely important book for read for anyone struggling with their gender identity and also religious struggles. Deserves more than 5 stars !  A Powerful read. It’s heartbreaking to imagine feeling one’s whole life that they are completely not living in the right body. What courage to come out from the ultra orthodox world into her authentic self. Mazal Tov, Abby. Hope to meet you one day.  The JourneyThe story was very informative about Hasidism and it’s traditions. It taught me many concepts I knew little about. It capture my attention from page one till the end. It is well worth the time to read this.  I had the please of listening to Abby Stein speak before I had the chance to read the book. Becoming Eve is a powerful read, and really any comments I might offer fall short of what it is to read it. Books like Stein's motivate you to keep going no matter what. Really self-indulgent, can't stop praising how special she is, how she is from royalty and how clever she was, compared to others. I knew she grew up in a cult, but it feels like there's a deeper story that wanted to get out, but was buried under "Wow, I'm special."  This one is my typical choice to read. A real story about a ultra-orthodox boy's journey to becoming a transgender woman - how she navigates it from a young age, how it affects her family/relationships and her religious beliefs. An interesting record of a life and a family. Abby was a fun troublemaker to read about! I very much enjoyed the deep dives into Hasidic sects and authors, and am now even more curious about the way the philosophical intersects with and affects our experiences of ourselves and the world.  Good book about the author's coming of age, coming out as transgender, and relationship with the family of origin, as well as new, chosen family. Abby was born into a prestigious Hassidic family, so her decisions about her future had major implications for her and her family, both. Amazing and brave!This is an incredible story of a double transition from a Hasidic Rabbi to a Transgender, Jewish, but non-Orthodox woman. Every chapter could be a book. You’ll want more, and I do think if you have no Jewish foundation, you’ll be lost.  I loved this book. What a beautiful and heartwarming memoir. My heart ached during so much of the book, as Abby moved through her struggles and I am so inspired by how she sees her life - even with all the challenges - through the eyes of love.  I loved that she wrote a book about her transition and her life. However the majority or the book was about memories and past lives experiences and too little was about what her life is like now. I think this book needs a better balance and more of her reality now. A fascinating story, although at points I felt it was a little too detailed, particularly around extended family relationships. I would have liked to have had more about Abby's life after leaving the sect and (re-)starting life in the non-Orthodox world. Her frank account of wanting to explore girl toys and colors as a child makes me wonder why we put our children in such gender-restrictive boxes, and how much harm does that cause? How much creativity does that stifle? I found it disappointing as far as her transitioning experience. there were only a few pages at the end that seemed rushed. Nothing about her wife or the child. she just mentioned she left without giving details.  Abby Stein was born a boy and into the Hasidic Community in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. At a very young age, Abby's soul felt like a girl. After 24 years of trying to ignore these feelings, Abby decided to leave the Hasidic community and live as her true self. I listened to the audiobook. So amazing to hear the author narrate her own story. And what a story! So honest and respectful both of her past and her present. The author is courageous beyond words. May her continuing journey be filled with light and joy. so interestingA great memoir and full of insight into the Hasidic community. I’ve seen Abby Stein speak and she is very engaging. This book will make you want to learn more about her. As someone with Orthodox family and who is Jewish, I was surprised and interested to learn new aspects of this personalized Jewish coming of age experience. Truly a gift of exploring, struggling and finding herself. Loved this book. This book was a quick read but so powerful. Abby Stein is courageous and intelligent. An awesomely transparent story of transition and leaving the Hasidic community. A must-read.  A book club read. Of mild interest. More about her coming to grips with the ultra jewish orthodox society than her being transgender, although the 2 are ultimately entwined. Very intriguing story- just wish there was a bit more about her transition out of the community vs her internal battle within the community. Nothing to much in this book beyond what she said in person at a local speaking engagement. This was disappointing. Amazing book. It is the story of a Hasidic Rabbi who who finds his way HER truth. It took a lot of courage to do what she did. And I'm impressed by her appetite for knowledge/learning. A beautifully written book, though I thought the "ending" was a bit rushed and not as detailed as I would've liked. But I loved reading this book. Fascinating subject but I want the story from 2012-present!! I hope Abby writes a follow up.  Amazing story. I can’t wait for your next book.  It was great and I couldn't put the book down, but I felt it ended too soon as I wanted to hear more, but it seemed to stop suddenly. I found the ending abrupt. I would have like to have found out what happened to the wife and newborn son. How has the author's decision affected their future? No mention of them whatsoever.  Such an interesting insight into the Hasidic community, and such a brave (and necessary) breakaway from it for her. Described in clear and straightforward prose. Thoughtful.  Interesting in the painting of the ultra orthodox life she was subjected to in her childhood and youth. A very different culture for sure. Loved the book! So glad Abby shared her story! I was fascinated to learn about Hasidic Judaism. Abby’s story seemed to be more about her faith journey and rejection of her community’s strict religion than understanding her gender identity.  Libes book - meh - too much time spent on her yeshiva education. Should have been more about her transition and less about his Talmudic studies  Such a great interesting read. I really enjoyed reading about her courage! Very interesting story. Author is very brave, honest and open about her experience.  What a book! On my top ten list ( and I have read a ton in my 70 years ). Read it, you won't be disappointed. Eager for the publication of a sequel.  הספר הזה בסדר. לא אהבתי, ויש בעיות. חשבתי שהסוף היה מיהרתי… this is a great look at the intersections of gender and religion. i loved how her transition wasn’t the focus of the book and i thought it was the perfect length.  Great readReally enjoyed this life story and definitely looking forward to more books from her. A very good read with lots of insight I had placed this book on hold awhile ago. Everyone has a story to tell and Eve told her story in a very deliberate way. Listening to the history behind her culture explained a lot . Well told. A wonderful and enlightening book.  Fascinating ReadThis powerful book is somewhat beyond words. The authenticity and the emotional capacity captured my heart more than I ever thought it would. I highly recommend The book ends before the story is finished so I hope she continues. 3.5 stars It was a gripping story. I found it interesting to get a peek at the life and Customs of Hasidic Judaism. It was wonderful listening to Abby telling the story of her transition.  It is a fascinating book to read. The only complaint (and why I gave 4, really 4.5 stars) is the ending felt rushed. ...and then she came to the book club Zoom! This book ended abruptly and did not really cover the years after Ms. Stein left her Hasidic community. Perhaps there will be another book. Very well written. Informative and personal. I couldn't put it down.  Good read with a less than satisfying ending. 3 1/2 ⭐️’s I learned a startling amount of information about the Satmar community and trans women. Worth a read if those subjects interest you. A very interesting story. Well written.  Awesome I was disappointed. I found it to be repetitive. There was not much insight into what should have been a fascinating account of a transgender experience.  Abandoned Review to follow AMAZING AND SO INTERESTING - such a good writer and really learned so many things about such a secretive community!  Fascinating read. And then I heard her interviewed. She wouldn’t answer too many questions because she’s planning on writing a sequel; Picking up where this book left off. True courage is exemplified in this book. My only critique is that I wish she would have gone more in depth in her transition process.  Extremely interesting! Would love to know more about how Eve’s life has progressed since the book came out. Worth reading. Amazing story, heartfelt journey. Wonderful read about transitions in life, becoming who we are and the ever interesting Hasidic Jewish community Excellent view of Hassidim and the gendered nature of society especially among the religious. Abby's journey is full of love, heartache, and acceptance.  Fascinating story of her journey....... Wasn't expecting to like it but I really did. Wonderfully written and I can't wait for the continuation which I am sure will be coming. Becoming Eve is a good book.  Could’ve been maybe 100 pages shorter. I wanted to really like this, but the writing was redundant, the story became predictable, and I barely wanted to keep reading less than halfway through 🤷‍♀️ While certainly an interesting read and topic, I really wished there would have been more about after the decision was made, more about the transition and Eves life.  4.5 ⭐️  Go straight to the epilogue Thi book offers an extremely interesting perspective. However the format really wasn't for me. The author constantly jumped between times and it wasn't very coherent. An important story, told honestly. The writing is plain, the journey complex.  "Throughout my childhood, showing off and being unique were not just a way to stand out, but also a way to express on the outside the discomfort I felt internally."  Abby Stein shares a deeply touching journey. As a bonus, I was grateful for the opportunity to learn more about the chassidic community. Very interesting. Personal story more interesting that discussion of teachings and time at yeshiva. Tended to jump around in time. Courageous transition.  Wonderful story of faith in oneself and GodI saw Abby on NYC channel at the 92 nd street Y . Her story is brave and provocative. I wish her well and I am very happy for her . Oy, the yidishkayt! Akh, the trans tsores! I loved this book. I just wish she hadn't glossed so rapidly over the three years between when she went "off the derekh" and when she came out as trans. Wish there was more about her life after she came out but other than that it is really good Really excellent book.  3.5 rounded up  Wow!!! Audio book read by authorG-d bless her for her bravery Thank you for sharing your life  A very interesting read. I felt like the ending was a bit rushed, and sometimes the timeline jumped around in weird ways, but overall well worth reading.  so captivating i could not put it down!!! as a trans and religious jew, i really really loved this book!! highly recommend :) Abby Stein is a woman brave enough to live as herself, despite the costs.  (Finished this a while ago, but forgot to update.)Abby Stein's lived experience is both important and compelling, but I disagree with some of her theological assertions. I learned a lot. Her writing helped me understand people born in the wrong body.Also learned a lot about ultra Orthodox Judaism. One of the best books I ever read. Loved her story, education on Jewish living in the Hasidic community. If she came to speak in our community I bet there would be standing room only. 💖 A bit of an abrupt ending and maybe a bit too much focus on studying - otherwise very interesting and kept my attention and wanting to read more.  i loved this story. Very moving and honest. I appreciated hearing what she loved about the way she was raised, as well as what she had difficulty with. Fascinating portrait of ultra-Orthodox Judaism and of transition. Excellent insights into the life of a transgender. Nice book. Ending was too sped-up but I understand why the author did that. Wouldn't recommend it to non-Jews. I hope Ms. Stein publishes more books. This book was captivating, I cried at the end.  3,5 🌟 Very interesting This book was so important to me during my conversion process and I will ALWAYS recommend it  A remarkable and highly courageous memoir. I was deeply moved by Abby Stein’s honesty. I highly recommend “Becoming Eve.” Havent given a book 5 stars in a long time!!  Insightful. The abrupt ending, after such deep, detailed reflections to that point, left me wondering about, and hurting for, the two key figures who get only a one-sentence mention. Too long and too short, somehow. (Ended abruptly, but since Abby is still quite young that does make sense. She's got a lot more life to live.) 4.5/5 Extremely well done. I just wish the last two chapters were a expanded to a book of their own! Abby Stein recounts her journey from a young Jewish Hasidic boy with the early realization that she identified as a girl, and her path to becoming a transgender Jewish woman - a story well told. ive read this book 4 times now and every time is better than the last Fascinating story! והשׁיב לב אבות על בנים ולב בנים על אבוֹתם Interesting book, but it seems like only part of a journey, with all of the most important info yet to come. Fascinating story! I wish the ending hadn’t been so rushed, but maybe there’s another book to come.  Very well written. Portrays both the Hasidic community and those who leave fairly and accurately. Stein is very perceptive and helps the reader understand her family. A very detailed memoir of how this person's gender transition effected his/her life. Abby is so incredible and I’m so grateful that I got to meet her in person and hear her story! Her memoir does an amazing job of showing her path through a deep exploration faith and gender.  Very interesting  what an incredible book! Everyone needs to read Abby's story. A rare glimpse into the Hasidic world and her amazing journey of transformation. A truly intriguing look into the very socially secluded world of Orthodox Judaism told with an interesting twist.  The audiobook is amazing. Listen to that if you have the option! Thank you - You're an InspirationThank you so much for sharing your truth and story. Your success in getting your truth out will help countless others. This is a prayer. 🙏🏽 Fascinating story, and I learned a lot about Ultra-Orthodox Jewish people in NYC. Powerful and awe inspiring to leave your community and create a new life and identity. Good insight into Yeshivas and how the Orthodox community expects boys to be.  A very interesting memoir of a trans woman who grew up in Hasidic Jewish community in New York. Fascinating but disturbing. Very interesting read. Learned lots about Hasidic Jews, their customs &amp; religion. However, I feel the book didn’t include information on the transition process. It just jumped to the end. Overall, a good fast read This book was really a page Turner and in that way quite good I appreciated the insights to the Hasidic lifestyle What was sorely missing was Any about emotions of Eve's x-wife. Did she have more empathy for Eve as a woman herself. and curious if there was any initial blame put on her as a female by the communityWhat about the child who will certainly be marked by the community as he grows up . Did Abby give total custody? While Abby/ Eve will go in to live a life they choseWhat happens to those left behind.Do the parents/ Abby have any remorse for deceitfully entering him into a contract of marriage - what are their thoughts- they must have suspected something?There was talk of therapy- did it occur and what were results!!!I felt a lot was missing Perhaps a second book?  A beautiful coming of age story about a young woman finding her true identity - Shkoyach Abby! An excellent read. Really good!  Fascinating story of personal reflection and transformation. The author is incredibly brave - I remember the waves that went through (my relatively secular) community when a direct descendant of the Ba’al Shem Tov came out as trans. I’m so glad I got to learn more about her series. Exceptionally written and immersive in the insular Haredi community. I couldn’t put it down.   Great read so far Becoming Eve is the memoir of Abby Chava Stein, who was raised as a boy in the ultra-orthodox Hassidic community.This books is not about how she left her faith and started over in a world completely foreign to her (she didn’t even speak English when she left her community). It’s also not about her transition. It’s about her life growing up, the pain and turmoil she experienced always knowing she was a girl in a community where there are very distinct gender roles. It was so emotional and you really feel her pain while reading. I absolutely loved her insight into the Hassidic community, her love for her family, and her strength. I have been following Abby online for years and I recommend this book to everyone I know.  This is a fascinating look into Hasidic life and the turmoil felt by the author who recognized that he was really a girl from the age of 3. A brilliant scholar, he eventually rebelled against Hasidic life and eventually transitioning to female. I would have like more information about the time period when he left Hasidism until her transition. It was a little abrupt.   Interesting, educational, and heartfelt. I wish there was more about her transition away from the Hasidic community as the ending felt quite rushed, leaving me with many questions. very personal and intimateAbby is great! 