oooh, goodreads choice awards semifinalist for BEST HORROR 2019! what will happen?this book is straight-up bonkers. seeing this was set “at an elite new england university” with an exclusive clique at its center and seeing it compared to Heathers, i went into it expecting a Megan Abbott-y/The Secret History-y type of deal; full of those dark and toxic currents that define adolescent girlhood, where affection shifts into power struggle at the drop of a hat, but also featuring a bunch of soulless smarty-pants big on ritualistic gatherings and down for some light murder. yes and pleasethis… is not that. which is not to say it’s bad AT ALL, it’s just not what i thought i was getting into. it is ALSO not, although this is frequently true of other books, that it is being misrepresented by overzealous marketing. you see, it is also compared to The Vegetarian, which i have not read, but now that i’ve looked into that book more, if i HAD read it, i probably would have been less taken aback by what this book actually is. which is, as previously stated, bonkers. this is The Secret History through the looking glass, carroll’s white rabbit split into four excessively co-dependent MFA students; twitchy and touchy-feely and calling each other “bunny,” operating symbiotically(?) as a “we;” each maintaining a specifically regimented style of expression in appearance and craft, but otherwise inseparable.samantha, our narrator and entry into this world, is the fifth person in the workshop, on the awkward periphery of these cooing girls who always seem to be monkey-grooming one another and giggling and sparkling all over the place. unlike the bunnies, who are rich and well-assimilated in the jargony twaddle of MFA programs the world over (”I appreciate the uncertainty the piece gestures toward…I just think she could go further into the dream space. It’s so interesting how she performs and reenacts trauma.”), samantha is planted firmly in outsider territory; a scholarship student whose darker themes are called ‘angry,’ ‘mean,’ and ‘distant’ by the bunnies, from whom she seems content to maintain her distance; aloof and sarcastically eviscerating them from afar alongside her art school dropout bestie ava; she of the fishnet gloves and veil, the asymmetrical haircut and tattered underwear-as-outerwear look. and then, unexpectedly, samantha is formally, by way of origami swan, invited into the bunnies’ inner circle, where she learns an awful lot about creativity, process, vulnerability, and true power.so yeah, it’s VERY reminiscent of Heathers, with its interplay of the frivolous and the dark and the comedic, as well as individual and group dynamics, but it’s just as much molly ringwald and annie potts in Pretty in Pink; outsider snark as a weapon against the allure of the wealthy pretty people, and the spiritual cost of capitulation (which john hughes never addressed, but i always inferred), and a vision board collage of style and theme that’s like Desperately Seeking Susan and Pump Up the Volume and Heathers and 92% of john hughes’ oeuvre. and also, oddly, the spice girls, since the bunnies adopt a particular quirky fashion-based persona that sets them apart within their collective persona.it’s not bonkers right out of the gate. at first, it seems like it's gonna be a fun-poking campus novel. this book is so funny in its depiction of the MFA world; the fetishizations and the relentless cleverness and posturing and critiques, which i can only imagine is much worse now as millennials tiptoe thru the triggers trying to make art that offends no one and supplying feedback that is nothing but praise, even for the kind of self-consciously manufactured glop people like the bunnies produce. like the one samantha calls “the Duchess,” who writes “inaccessible and cryptic” pieces, she calls proems, “etched on panes of glass using a dagger-shaped diamond she wears around her neck.” or the work of the one samantha has dubbed “Vignette,” who shares “a series of unpunctuated vignettes about a woman named Z who pukes up soup while thinking nihilistic thoughts, then has anal sex in a trailer,” for whom samantha has little patience.I hate Vignette’s pieces. They are dreary word puzzles I’m always too bored and annoyed to solve. Each paragraph is a half smile, half frown, way up its own asshole. Also, they beg questions like: when on her perilous, pirouetting journey from Interlochen to Barnard was she ever in a trailer?but, of course, in a workshop of four hydra-like girls and a fawning mentor, an outsider does not have the luxury of honestly speaking her mind.”What do you think, Samantha?” Fosco asks me.That it’s a piece of pretentious shit. That is says nothing, gives nothing. That I don’t understand it, that probably no one does and no one ever will. That not being understood is a privilege I can’t afford. That I can’t believe this woman got paid to come here. That I think she should apologize to trees. Spend a whole day on her knees in the forest, looking up at the trembling aspens and oaks and whatever other trees paper is made of with tears in her languid eyes and say, I’m fucking sorry. I’m sorry that I think I’m so goddamned interesting when it is clear that I am not interesting. Here’s what I am: I’m a boring tree murderess.But I look at Vignette, at Creepy Doll, at Cupcake, the Duchess. All of them staring at me now with shy smiles.“I think I’d like to see more of the soup too,” I hear myself say.samantha herself is not immune to that stereotypically, overly fussy brand of MFA writing, even though we don’t get to see much of the work she produces for the workshop. however, as the narrator, everything is filtered through her descriptions, and the prose is precise, overly crafted; the reader is bludgeoned with adjectives, with a particular emphasis on smells pinned into place with poetic words, where the bunnies’ outfits are described in every scene, creating a sensory overload that is frequently original and poetic, but is sometimes just… too much. don’t get me wrong, i loved most of the writing, She shivers at the view of the grand trees, as if they’re not trees at all but something truly vile, like all the rosy-blond light that seems to forever bathe the campus is about to punch her in the face like a terrible fist of rich.there’s just a lot of chewy prose here and sometimes it’s a description-bog.and then… bonkers ensues.it’s really fun and sharp and shivery, with a macabre fairy-tale overlay that gives it a unique spin on the coming-of-age tale. "coming-of-age" might seem misplaced, considering these are MFA students, but they read much younger than their actual age; not just the self-consciously girly-girl bunnies, but also in the themes samantha brings to the narrative; her awkwardness and loneliness and leftover-adolescent self-consciousness about fitting in; finding her place — for all of her ostensible disgust at the bunnies, their camaraderie is not without appeal for someone defined by loneliness and survival-mode embracing of their own otherness. it may not have been the book i thought i was going to read, but it was a very pleasant surprise, and even though i am being intentionally vague about where this one’ll take you, i encourage you to find out for yourself, because bonkers is way better than boring. ************************************that was... unexpected. i need to process this one a little bit. review TK.come to my blog!! *deep, deep breath**lung-bursting shrieks**choked swear words**another deep breath in, then out*Alright, with that out of the way, let's get this shit over with.MASSIVE FUCKING SPOILER WARNING!!!!! !Words cannot, and I mean CANNOT, express how disappointed I am with this novel. I went from, "wow, this is so creepy, I love it!" to "well, that was a little disappointing," to "FUCK THIS SHIT SO FUCKING HARD." The best word I can use to sum up my emotions right now (aside from the obvious ones like rage, hatred, and disappointed) is BETRAYED. I feel so FUCKING betrayed by this novel because there were so many things that I liked and it legitimately feels like the story saw my joy and said, "oh, you're happy? That won't do, let's fix that, shall we?" and turned this book into a fucking dumpster fire by the end of it.Before I start rage-hating this book, I want to express the one aspect that I loved for most of it: the writing. Holy shit, the writing was amazing! The details given to locations, the senses, appearances, even emotions was done so well and added depth to scenes that ordinarily wouldn't get. However, the amount of detail started to weigh down the story considerably towards the end, to the point where you could skim whole paragraphs and not miss anything crucial.One thing that I loved about the writing was the detail given to each of the Bunnies, specifically from Samantha's perspective. For example, one of the Bunnies she referred to as Cupcake, because she always wore bright colored dresses (like brightly colored frosting) and smelled like sweet fruit (a common ingredient in cupcakes). What was interesting about this is that this can be interpreted as objectification. Samantha doesn't see Cupcake as a person (for most of the book) but rather as a consumable product, and since they are both writing majors and they are told to focus on The Body, her nickname and description unintentionally characterizes Cupcake as a consumable object rather than a person. I could on about the other women in the story, but for the sake of this review's length I'll keep it at that. Suffice to say, that was an aspect I truly enjoyed. Too bad it couldn't carry the rest of the fucking story.But let's not get ahead of ourselves, let's talk about the main character Samantha, or as I like to call her, Our Lady of Perpetual Pity Parties. Look, I get it, her entire character arc is supposed to be about her whining about how much her life sucks and constantly needing other people for support only for her to realize that in the real world, sometimes you have to do difficult things on your own, and give her a triumphant concluding chapter. Yeah, here's how I feel about that:FUCK. THAT. SHIT.All Samantha did for LITERALLY 3/4 OF THE BOOK was whine, whine, whine about her life and how she hates people but can't tell them, and LIES, LIES LIES. Holy shit, did she tell the fucking truth AT ALL in this story? I couldn't tell because the author was SO ADAMANT about making her lie about FUCKING EVERYTHING that I honestly couldn't tell. I was so done with her self-created and self-attended pity parties that by the time she actually did something it didn't feel satisfying.Quick side note, I hated pretty much everyone in this fucking book. They were all self-entitled, judgmental, and uninteresting. Moving on.Now it's time to talk about the moment where this turned from awesome to disappointing. You know how the summary promotes the idea that these are women bringing to life their "dark fantasies"? Yeah, sounds interesting, doesn't it? You wanna know what their "dark fantasies" are?Men. Their ideal, fantasy-created men. I'm not kidding. They literally sacrifice bunnies so that they can create their own men. Oh, but they're not called men, instead they're "Drafts," "Darlings," or "Hybrids". Yeah, WHAT FUCKING EVER. I was expecting twisted, disturbing creatures birthed from twisted minds, not their fantasy guys. Seriously, fuck this plot twist so hard, it was such a disappointment.And to add the cherry on top of this disappointing story, we have the totally off the rails depiction of women hating. That's effectively what this story boils down to, women hating that is suspiciously juvenile but it takes place in a college so it's TOTALLY ADULT. Here's the plot: unpopular girl gets drafted into popular group, leaves the group for awhile, that group gets bitchy revenge, girl returns to group, then leaves group again, girl gets final revenge at the end. HOW IS THIS NOT A YA STORY?! Seriously, I have seen this EXACT FORMULA at least half a dozen times already, but because it takes place in a college its ADULT?! FUCK THAT SHIT! Oh, and let's talk about the women hating, shall we?First off, Samantha is unfathomably judgmental to the Bunnies, until she is officially inducted into their ranks. The Bunnies are always cooing and coddling each other, all the while saying nasty and judgmental things sugarcoated as suggestions or whatever. So, you know, there's that. I thought this story was going to be about rising above all that and be a feminist piece but NOPE! You want to know what unravels their little friend group?A FUCKING MAN. I shit you not, Samantha is able to "create" a man that all of the Bunnies love (all other men were failures. Oh and Samantha was able to do this ON HER FIRST TRY, because OF FUCKING COURSE, why the fuck not?!) and they tear each other AND THEMSELVES apart to please him, going so far as to LITERALLY FIGHT EACH OTHER for his affection. And you want to know the best part? Based off of my interpretation of the text, Max (Samantha's "creation") exists to do all the things she wants to do but can't because she's too scared (like date Ava, her friend, or destroy the Bunnies). Are you telling me that Samantha had to create A MALE VERSION OF HERSELF to be able to do all the things she wanted to do before her plot induced epiphany kicked in?! Oh, and speaking of endings, you want to know what her "new and improved" self does when approaching the Bunnies after Max is destroyed? She acts snarky and condescending towards them. Female empowerment at its finest, AM I RIGHT, GUYS?! Holy shit, how is it possible for a story to derail so spectacularly?! (Although the same thing happened with The Black Coats, so I guess anything's possible).Welp, that about does it. All of my rage and hatred has finally been quelled, thanks to my best friend, the caps lock key. In closing, I do not recommend this book to anyone, I wish I could have lit my copy on fire and throw it out a window but it was a library book so I couldn't, I hope everyone has a nice day and never has to suffer like I did reading this book. I would join a cult with no questions asked.I can't even pretend that I'm better than that, or smarter than that, or capable-er of reading red flags than that. The fact of the matter is that not only do I hate making decisions (and therefore find the idea of someone making all of mine for me very compelling), I also (due to years of being a teacher's pet nerd) am desperate to be cool.Make that cult led by a bunch of hot girls in cute dresses and I am done for.This is a very cool, very...funny in the way of Satire, very creepyspooky book that I enjoyed quite a bit. I picked it up as part of my need to read every work of literary fiction with a low average rating and a female protagonist who is hard to like, so I didn't really expect to appreciate the reading experience. But I did.This book is also fairly big on BookTok, and while most of my TikTok feed is made up of the most unhinged and inexplicable videos to exist in the universe since the end of Vine, I occasionally brush with literature (presumably due to my username being "emmareadstoomuch"). People on BookTok like to say very dumb things about this book, like "i liked most of it but it rlly lost its way at the end :/" and "bunny was like good but also it totally stopped making sense" as if endings are something authors just make up at the last minute and they have nothing to do with anything.That is so stupid it triggers my fight or flight, and the ending of this is good.The end.Bottom line: Books like this forever!! !-------------pre-reviewi don't know what it says about me that after reading this book, i just really want to be a blonde rich demon girl in a pastel dress eating mini foods...okay, i do know. it's that i'm psychologically unwell.review to come / 3.5ish-------------currently-reading updatesit's giving a secret history (this is an observation i made based on title alone, only to discover that the woman who wrote cat person made the same one presumably after reading the whole book)-------------tbr reviewhad to add this to my tbr, as a big fan of borderline unpleasant literary fiction about unlikable women  super fucking bizarre. i loved it.i usually don't compare titles to explain books, but i think it's the best way to explain this one sooooheathers meets the craft meets frankenstein. if that sounds like a good time to you READ THIS. hahahahha what the fuck this was the weirdest book i've read in my life and i don't know if i loved it or hated it but it was amazing and broke my brain  Wtf was that. people get exhausted trying to figure me out, and i just let them  - this book @ me, midway throughthis is just bizarre and not in a way that has me wanting to figure out what happens next. i wanted to slam my head into a wall trying to puzzle my way through writing that used phrases like "gynecological hand gestures." like what the fuck does that even mean. i guess i now understand people's inability to put this book into words in their reviews. because the book has nothing tangible to explain.dnf @ like... 40%? 2nd read: October 2021buddy read with caitlin &amp; my patrons★★★★★!!!!!!!!!!! !1st read: October 2020buddy read with jaime &amp; caitlin★★★★★  Hmmmm.....I have no idea what I just read or how to review it. Does that work as a proper review? I'm not even going to attempt discussing the plot because...because.... See? I truly don't know how to. Bizarre, strange, peculiar, unusual are just a few words that come to mind if I had to try and describe this mind fuck of a book. It's a very slip-streamy type of novel. A novel in which the entire time I read I had no idea what was going on and I still don't. Not a fucking clue. "And then they hug each other so hard I think their chests are going to implode. I would even secretly hope for it from where I sat, stood, leaned in the opposite corner of the lecture hall, department lounge, auditorium, bearing witness to four grown women - my academic peers - cooingly strangle each other hello. Or goodbye. Or just because your so amazing, Bunny. How fiercely they gripped each other's pink and white bodies, forming a hot little circle of such rib-crushing love and understanding that it took my breath away. And the nuzzling of ski-jump noses and peach fuzzy cheeks. Temples pressed against temples in a way that made me think of the labial rubbing bonobo or the telepathy of beautiful murderous children in horror films. All eight of their eyes shut tight as if this collective asphyxiation were a kind of religious bliss. All four of their glossy mouths making squealing sounds of monstrous love that hurt my face. I love you, Bunny." Did I like it? 