oooh, goodreads choice awards semifinalist for BEST HORROR 2019! what will happen?this book is straight-up bonkers. seeing this was set “at an elite new england university” with an exclusive clique at its center and seeing it compared to Heathers, i went into it expecting a Megan Abbott-y/The Secret History-y type of deal; full of those dark and toxic currents that define adolescent girlhood, where affection shifts into power struggle at the drop of a hat, but also featuring a bunch of soulless smarty-pants big on ritualistic gatherings and down for some light murder. yes and pleasethis… is not that. which is not to say it’s bad AT ALL, it’s just not what i thought i was getting into. it is ALSO not, although this is frequently true of other books, that it is being misrepresented by overzealous marketing. you see, it is also compared to The Vegetarian, which i have not read, but now that i’ve looked into that book more, if i HAD read it, i probably would have been less taken aback by what this book actually is. which is, as previously stated, bonkers. this is The Secret History through the looking glass, carroll’s white rabbit split into four excessively co-dependent MFA students; twitchy and touchy-feely and calling each other “bunny,” operating symbiotically(?) as a “we;” each maintaining a specifically regimented style of expression in appearance and craft, but otherwise inseparable.samantha, our narrator and entry into this world, is the fifth person in the workshop, on the awkward periphery of these cooing girls who always seem to be monkey-grooming one another and giggling and sparkling all over the place. unlike the bunnies, who are rich and well-assimilated in the jargony twaddle of MFA programs the world over (”I appreciate the uncertainty the piece gestures toward…I just think she could go further into the dream space. It’s so interesting how she performs and reenacts trauma.”), samantha is planted firmly in outsider territory; a scholarship student whose darker themes are called ‘angry,’ ‘mean,’ and ‘distant’ by the bunnies, from whom she seems content to maintain her distance; aloof and sarcastically eviscerating them from afar alongside her art school dropout bestie ava; she of the fishnet gloves and veil, the asymmetrical haircut and tattered underwear-as-outerwear look. and then, unexpectedly, samantha is formally, by way of origami swan, invited into the bunnies’ inner circle, where she learns an awful lot about creativity, process, vulnerability, and true power.so yeah, it’s VERY reminiscent of Heathers, with its interplay of the frivolous and the dark and the comedic, as well as individual and group dynamics, but it’s just as much molly ringwald and annie potts in Pretty in Pink; outsider snark as a weapon against the allure of the wealthy pretty people, and the spiritual cost of capitulation (which john hughes never addressed, but i always inferred), and a vision board collage of style and theme that’s like Desperately Seeking Susan and Pump Up the Volume and Heathers and 92% of john hughes’ oeuvre. and also, oddly, the spice girls, since the bunnies adopt a particular quirky fashion-based persona that sets them apart within their collective persona.it’s not bonkers right out of the gate. at first, it seems like it's gonna be a fun-poking campus novel. this book is so funny in its depiction of the MFA world; the fetishizations and the relentless cleverness and posturing and critiques, which i can only imagine is much worse now as millennials tiptoe thru the triggers trying to make art that offends no one and supplying feedback that is nothing but praise, even for the kind of self-consciously manufactured glop people like the bunnies produce. like the one samantha calls “the Duchess,” who writes “inaccessible and cryptic” pieces, she calls proems, “etched on panes of glass using a dagger-shaped diamond she wears around her neck.” or the work of the one samantha has dubbed “Vignette,” who shares “a series of unpunctuated vignettes about a woman named Z who pukes up soup while thinking nihilistic thoughts, then has anal sex in a trailer,” for whom samantha has little patience.I hate Vignette’s pieces. They are dreary word puzzles I’m always too bored and annoyed to solve. Each paragraph is a half smile, half frown, way up its own asshole. Also, they beg questions like: when on her perilous, pirouetting journey from Interlochen to Barnard was she ever in a trailer?but, of course, in a workshop of four hydra-like girls and a fawning mentor, an outsider does not have the luxury of honestly speaking her mind.”What do you think, Samantha?” Fosco asks me.That it’s a piece of pretentious shit. That is says nothing, gives nothing. That I don’t understand it, that probably no one does and no one ever will. That not being understood is a privilege I can’t afford. That I can’t believe this woman got paid to come here. That I think she should apologize to trees. Spend a whole day on her knees in the forest, looking up at the trembling aspens and oaks and whatever other trees paper is made of with tears in her languid eyes and say, I’m fucking sorry. I’m sorry that I think I’m so goddamned interesting when it is clear that I am not interesting. Here’s what I am: I’m a boring tree murderess.But I look at Vignette, at Creepy Doll, at Cupcake, the Duchess. All of them staring at me now with shy smiles.“I think I’d like to see more of the soup too,” I hear myself say.samantha herself is not immune to that stereotypically, overly fussy brand of MFA writing, even though we don’t get to see much of the work she produces for the workshop. however, as the narrator, everything is filtered through her descriptions, and the prose is precise, overly crafted; the reader is bludgeoned with adjectives, with a particular emphasis on smells pinned into place with poetic words, where the bunnies’ outfits are described in every scene, creating a sensory overload that is frequently original and poetic, but is sometimes just… too much. don’t get me wrong, i loved most of the writing, She shivers at the view of the grand trees, as if they’re not trees at all but something truly vile, like all the rosy-blond light that seems to forever bathe the campus is about to punch her in the face like a terrible fist of rich.there’s just a lot of chewy prose here and sometimes it’s a description-bog.and then… bonkers ensues.it’s really fun and sharp and shivery, with a macabre fairy-tale overlay that gives it a unique spin on the coming-of-age tale. "coming-of-age" might seem misplaced, considering these are MFA students, but they read much younger than their actual age; not just the self-consciously girly-girl bunnies, but also in the themes samantha brings to the narrative; her awkwardness and loneliness and leftover-adolescent self-consciousness about fitting in; finding her place — for all of her ostensible disgust at the bunnies, their camaraderie is not without appeal for someone defined by loneliness and survival-mode embracing of their own otherness. it may not have been the book i thought i was going to read, but it was a very pleasant surprise, and even though i am being intentionally vague about where this one’ll take you, i encourage you to find out for yourself, because bonkers is way better than boring.************************************that was... unexpected. i need to process this one a little bit. review TK.come to my blog!!  *deep, deep breath**lung-bursting shrieks**choked swear words**another deep breath in, then out*Alright, with that out of the way, let's get this shit over with.MASSIVE FUCKING SPOILER WARNING!!!!!!Words cannot, and I mean CANNOT, express how disappointed I am with this novel. I went from, "wow, this is so creepy, I love it!" to "well, that was a little disappointing," to "FUCK THIS SHIT SO FUCKING HARD." The best word I can use to sum up my emotions right now (aside from the obvious ones like rage, hatred, and disappointed) is BETRAYED. I feel so FUCKING betrayed by this novel because there were so many things that I liked and it legitimately feels like the story saw my joy and said, "oh, you're happy? That won't do, let's fix that, shall we?" and turned this book into a fucking dumpster fire by the end of it.Before I start rage-hating this book, I want to express the one aspect that I loved for most of it: the writing. Holy shit, the writing was amazing! The details given to locations, the senses, appearances, even emotions was done so well and added depth to scenes that ordinarily wouldn't get. However, the amount of detail started to weigh down the story considerably towards the end, to the point where you could skim whole paragraphs and not miss anything crucial.One thing that I loved about the writing was the detail given to each of the Bunnies, specifically from Samantha's perspective. For example, one of the Bunnies she referred to as Cupcake, because she always wore bright colored dresses (like brightly colored frosting) and smelled like sweet fruit (a common ingredient in cupcakes). What was interesting about this is that this can be interpreted as objectification. Samantha doesn't see Cupcake as a person (for most of the book) but rather as a consumable product, and since they are both writing majors and they are told to focus on The Body, her nickname and description unintentionally characterizes Cupcake as a consumable object rather than a person. I could on about the other women in the story, but for the sake of this review's length I'll keep it at that. Suffice to say, that was an aspect I truly enjoyed. Too bad it couldn't carry the rest of the fucking story.But let's not get ahead of ourselves, let's talk about the main character Samantha, or as I like to call her, Our Lady of Perpetual Pity Parties. Look, I get it, her entire character arc is supposed to be about her whining about how much her life sucks and constantly needing other people for support only for her to realize that in the real world, sometimes you have to do difficult things on your own, and give her a triumphant concluding chapter. Yeah, here's how I feel about that:FUCK. THAT. SHIT.All Samantha did for LITERALLY 3/4 OF THE BOOK was whine, whine, whine about her life and how she hates people but can't tell them, and LIES, LIES LIES. Holy shit, did she tell the fucking truth AT ALL in this story? I couldn't tell because the author was SO ADAMANT about making her lie about FUCKING EVERYTHING that I honestly couldn't tell. I was so done with her self-created and self-attended pity parties that by the time she actually did something it didn't feel satisfying.Quick side note, I hated pretty much everyone in this fucking book. They were all self-entitled, judgmental, and uninteresting. Moving on.Now it's time to talk about the moment where this turned from awesome to disappointing. You know how the summary promotes the idea that these are women bringing to life their "dark fantasies"? Yeah, sounds interesting, doesn't it? You wanna know what their "dark fantasies" are?Men. Their ideal, fantasy-created men. I'm not kidding. They literally sacrifice bunnies so that they can create their own men. Oh, but they're not called men, instead they're "Drafts," "Darlings," or "Hybrids". Yeah, WHAT FUCKING EVER. I was expecting twisted, disturbing creatures birthed from twisted minds, not their fantasy guys. Seriously, fuck this plot twist so hard, it was such a disappointment.And to add the cherry on top of this disappointing story, we have the totally off the rails depiction of women hating. That's effectively what this story boils down to, women hating that is suspiciously juvenile but it takes place in a college so it's TOTALLY ADULT. Here's the plot: unpopular girl gets drafted into popular group, leaves the group for awhile, that group gets bitchy revenge, girl returns to group, then leaves group again, girl gets final revenge at the end. HOW IS THIS NOT A YA STORY?! Seriously, I have seen this EXACT FORMULA at least half a dozen times already, but because it takes place in a college its ADULT?! FUCK THAT SHIT! Oh, and let's talk about the women hating, shall we?First off, Samantha is unfathomably judgmental to the Bunnies, until she is officially inducted into their ranks. The Bunnies are always cooing and coddling each other, all the while saying nasty and judgmental things sugarcoated as suggestions or whatever. So, you know, there's that. I thought this story was going to be about rising above all that and be a feminist piece but NOPE! You want to know what unravels their little friend group?A FUCKING MAN. I shit you not, Samantha is able to "create" a man that all of the Bunnies love (all other men were failures. Oh and Samantha was able to do this ON HER FIRST TRY, because OF FUCKING COURSE, why the fuck not?!) and they tear each other AND THEMSELVES apart to please him, going so far as to LITERALLY FIGHT EACH OTHER for his affection. And you want to know the best part? Based off of my interpretation of the text, Max (Samantha's "creation") exists to do all the things she wants to do but can't because she's too scared (like date Ava, her friend, or destroy the Bunnies). Are you telling me that Samantha had to create A MALE VERSION OF HERSELF to be able to do all the things she wanted to do before her plot induced epiphany kicked in?! Oh, and speaking of endings, you want to know what her "new and improved" self does when approaching the Bunnies after Max is destroyed? She acts snarky and condescending towards them. Female empowerment at its finest, AM I RIGHT, GUYS?! Holy shit, how is it possible for a story to derail so spectacularly?! (Although the same thing happened with The Black Coats, so I guess anything's possible).Welp, that about does it. All of my rage and hatred has finally been quelled, thanks to my best friend, the caps lock key. In closing, I do not recommend this book to anyone, I wish I could have lit my copy on fire and throw it out a window but it was a library book so I couldn't, I hope everyone has a nice day and never has to suffer like I did reading this book.  I would join a cult with no questions asked.I can't even pretend that I'm better than that, or smarter than that, or capable-er of reading red flags than that. The fact of the matter is that not only do I hate making decisions (and therefore find the idea of someone making all of mine for me very compelling), I also (due to years of being a teacher's pet nerd) am desperate to be cool.Make that cult led by a bunch of hot girls in cute dresses and I am done for.This is a very cool, very...funny in the way of Satire, very creepyspooky book that I enjoyed quite a bit. I picked it up as part of my need to read every work of literary fiction with a low average rating and a female protagonist who is hard to like, so I didn't really expect to appreciate the reading experience. But I did.This book is also fairly big on BookTok, and while most of my TikTok feed is made up of the most unhinged and inexplicable videos to exist in the universe since the end of Vine, I occasionally brush with literature (presumably due to my username being "emmareadstoomuch"). People on BookTok like to say very dumb things about this book, like "i liked most of it but it rlly lost its way at the end :/" and "bunny was like good but also it totally stopped making sense" as if endings are something authors just make up at the last minute and they have nothing to do with anything.That is so stupid it triggers my fight or flight, and the ending of this is good.The end.Bottom line: Books like this forever!!!-------------pre-reviewi don't know what it says about me that after reading this book, i just really want to be a blonde rich demon girl in a pastel dress eating mini foods...okay, i do know. it's that i'm psychologically unwell.review to come / 3.5ish-------------currently-reading updatesit's giving a secret history (this is an observation i made based on title alone, only to discover that the woman who wrote cat person made the same one presumably after reading the whole book)-------------tbr reviewhad to add this to my tbr, as a big fan of borderline unpleasant literary fiction about unlikable women  super fucking bizarre. i loved it.i usually don't compare titles to explain books, but i think it's the best way to explain this one sooooheathers meets the craft meets frankenstein. if that sounds like a good time to you READ THIS.  hahahahha what the fuck this was the weirdest book i've read in my life and i don't know if i loved it or hated it but it was amazing and broke my brain  Wtf was that. people get exhausted trying to figure me out, and i just let them  - this book @ me, midway throughthis is just bizarre and not in a way that has me wanting to figure out what happens next. i wanted to slam my head into a wall trying to puzzle my way through writing that used phrases like "gynecological hand gestures." like what the fuck does that even mean. i guess i now understand people's inability to put this book into words in their reviews. because the book has nothing tangible to explain.dnf @ like... 40%?  2nd read: October 2021buddy read with caitlin &amp; my patrons★★★★★!!!!!!!!!!!!1st read: October 2020buddy read with jaime &amp; caitlin★★★★★  Hmmmm.....I have no idea what I just read or how to review it. Does that work as a proper review? I'm not even going to attempt discussing the plot because...because.... See? I truly don't know how to. Bizarre, strange, peculiar, unusual are just a few words that come to mind if I had to try and describe this mind fuck of a book. It's a very slip-streamy type of novel. A novel in which the entire time I read I had no idea what was going on and I still don't. Not a fucking clue."And then they hug each other so hard I think their chests are going to implode. I would even secretly hope for it from where I sat, stood, leaned in the opposite corner of the lecture hall, department lounge, auditorium, bearing witness to four grown women - my academic peers - cooingly strangle each other hello. Or goodbye. Or just because your so amazing, Bunny. How fiercely they gripped each other's pink and white bodies, forming a hot little circle of such rib-crushing love and understanding that it took my breath away. And the nuzzling of ski-jump noses and peach fuzzy cheeks. Temples pressed against temples in a way that made me think of the labial rubbing bonobo or the telepathy of beautiful murderous children in horror films. All eight of their eyes shut tight as if this collective asphyxiation were a kind of religious bliss. All four of their glossy mouths making squealing sounds of monstrous love that hurt my face. I love you, Bunny." Did I like it? I kind of did. I can't deny the talent of this author. She's a wordsmith without a doubt. This book is being compared to Heathers and I think it's an appropriate comparison only this book is so much stranger. So much weirder. Some of the observations made by Samantha, our narrator, are downright snarky and hilarious and I was digging the vibe but then it all gets to be a bit too much. A bit too "out there" even for a weirdo like me. Toward the end of the book I came across this quote in which I highlighted because it summed up my thoughts exactly: "JUST SAY IT. TELL ME WHAT HAPPENED. TELL ME WHAT THE FUCK THIS MEANS AND WHAT YOU DID EXACTLY." 3 *WTF just happened?* stars!Thank you to Edelweiss &amp; Viking Books for providing me with a digital ARC in exchange for my honest review.  One of the weirdest fucking books I’ve ever read. This book is the product child of a love triangle: if Mean Girls and Alice in Wonderland fell in love with The Craft.If you like pretentious people in cliques and sacrificial cults and exploding heads and truly WTF moments, all at the same time getting their MFAs in writing and lit? Then this one is for you.4 STARS  | |  blog |  tumblr | ko-fi | |There are those bizarre and experimental books that manage to be entertaining, transgressive, and on occasion even thought-provoking. And then, there are books like Bunny whose weirdness largely rests on overusing the word bunny (which appears approximately 350 times, one time too many). An intentionally silly story that owes more to Scream Queens and The Babysitter  then Heathers or Mean Girls. If you are picking up Bunny thinking that it is some sort of intriguing campus novel, you should reconsider given that this book is the anthesis to The Secret History. If you are hoping for some sort of absurdist black comedy à la Yorgos Lanthimos, think again. The 'satirical horror' I was hoping to encounter in Bunny was largely MIA.Each page of this novel tries to be 'sarcastic' by exaggerating the mannerisms and words of certain groups of people (in this case a creative writing clique) which made for a weary reading experience. Writing about writing is never an easy endeavour since there is the high risk that you will remind your readers that they are indeed 'reading' a fictitious work. Since the main cast in Bunny is part of a creative writing MFA program...we were constantly reminded of how inane criticism can be. The five girls part of this program are apparently only able to write fiction that reflects their personal life or preferences...funnily enough, a lot of the criticism that these characters throw at each other's pieces of writing could easily be aimed at Bunny (oh, the irony):“Um, what the fuck is this, please? This makes no sense. This is coy and this is willfully obscure and no one but [the author] will ever get this […] spoiled, fragmented, lazy, pretentious […] And then I feel like screaming JUST SAY IT. TELL ME WHAT HAPPENED. TELL ME WHAT THE FUCK THIS MEANS AND WHAT YOU DID WITH HIM EXACTLY.”Four of these girls are part of a clique that is the ultimate parody of cliques. From the first few pages they are presented as some sort of 'hive-mind', some sort of multi-conscious entity. Some of their conversations between them—as well as the narrator's observations about them—could be amusing. Although the narrator keeps insisting that she is 'different' (aka the only 'big' difference between her and the bunnies is her finances) she falls prey to this clique. Personally, I don't think the story provides with a convincing reason for the MC to fall in with these girls. Even when the Mc sees their most secretive activities...it seemed that she stayed with them out of laziness (or merely as a way to further the plot).The weirdness of this story seems contrived. This whole novel seems (rather ironically) like an exercise for a creative writing class. Many of the 'bizarre' elements in this story were predictable and had me rolling my eyes. The whole book is like a joke that goes on for too long. The first few chapters were amusing and the scenes that took place in the creative writing workshop were on point (and reminded me of the creative writing module I took in my first year of uni): “Samantha, we’re at Warren. The most experimental, groundbreaking writing school in the country. This goes way beyond genre. It subverts the whole concept of genre.”“And gender narratives.”“And the patriarchy of language.”“Not to mention the whole writing medium.”“It basically fucks the writing medium, Samantha. Which is dead anyway, you know?”“Exactly. This is about the Body. Performing the Body. The Body performing in all its nuanced viscerality.”Yet, soon enough the repetitiveness of these exchanges grew tiresome and the style of the narrative became increasingly annoying and unnecessary. The narrative mimics the language—and perhaps vision—of this clique of girls: it is sweet, sticky, and extra. If you like eating candy floss until you feel sick you might be up for it...the narrative—if not the whole story—is a parody that lacks subtlety or real wit:Here at Mini they have many cupcakes in mini but they should have more. Why don’t they have more? They should have more in mini, more! We tell them how they should have more in mini and they do not seem to make a note of it.The narrative's style was so repetitive! All too frequently words were repeated three times in a row in a cheap attempt to give urgency to the story. The plot (if we can call it that) even in its 'wtf moments' is tedious. The characters and story seem merely a backdrop to this sickeningly sweet and repetitive language (hair like feathers, tiny pink-y small-ish hand, glossy this and that, teensy-weensy girls who eat teensy-weensy food).This book didn't inspire feelings of panic or fear, which I was expecting given its summary...I was never afraid of these demented  girls and their stupid activities. A lot of the things seem to just happen to the MC as if she isn't capable of these laughable 'terrible' things from happening (insert eye roll here). Again, I find it ironic that the MC's own writing is criticised for this exact reason:“Although we could hardly call her a heroine, could we? I mean, could we even call her that, Samantha? […] She’s quite passive, Samantha, isn’t she?”I guess you could argue that this is all 'intentional'. The stupid characters, the saccharine and repetitive language, the MC's spinelessness...these things come across this way on purpose...but that seems like a cheap excuse to make the lazy and unfunny elements of your story 'deliberate'. The worst 'sin' of all is that this book leaves us with a less than favourable opinion about writing and criticism...which isn't a great message.   “A book should be like an ax.” 1 Star Well, I didn’t like it! And I think everyone was hitting the crack pipe. I’m weird and messed up enough without this 🤣😂And it seems like they were blowing up bunnies or some weird shit Yeah...So, I’m climbing out of the rabbit hole and on to the next book! Happy Reading! Mel 🖤🐶🐺🐾BLOG: https://melissa413readsalot.blogspot....  I have, like, no clue what I just read. A post-feminist Fight Club? A sort-of inverted Traumnovelle / Eyes Wide Shut? An appeal for Bunnies or an ode to wolves? The writing was interesting-very uber-millennial complete with emojis, selfies, self-indulgent musing, semi-pretentious name-dropping, sarcasm-laden descriptions.I stare at them all through Kira's pink heart-shaped glasses. This is how she must see the world all the time. I look at their dark pink faces, so suddenly grave. I should call the police. I should run to Mexico. (p. 109)Samantha/Smackie is a grad student at a prestigious (pour ne pas dire pretentious) university in a northeastern city (that strongly resembles Boston where the author currently lives according to Wikipedia). It is hard to tell apart what is pure fantasy from Samatha's overactive imagination and what is real, but she is definitely wired differently than just about everyone. Her erstwhile best-friend, Ava, is the polar opposite to the somewhat cannibalistic Bunnies (Eleonore/Duchess, Kira/Creepy Doll, Victoria/Vignette, Caroline/Cupcake) who are in Sam's writing Workshop with the formidable Ursula/KareKare. Ava represents her tragic past (mother died of a car accident when she was 13, her father on the lamb because of poor business decisions) and the Bunnies represent a privileged life which Facebook and Instagram and Disney promise to us if we are starborn and, preferably, white, blonde, and blue-eyed. Naturally, there is a tension between these two worlds existing in Sam's psyche which gets eventually personified in the Max/Ax/Wolf character later in the book. She is attracted to the capitalist dream that the Bunnies represent, but also repulsed by it - wanting to give in and wanting to fight, Ultimately, she only goes halfway: and that's when I realize that whatever pain I have, whatever true want I have that lives under all this greasy, spineless needing to please, isn't something I want to give them. (p. 169)Things start out normal-enough and quickly become bizarre with violence, drugs, and sexual fantasies all mixed up like a frozen cocktail of Cray 👻🌷 (as one of the Bunnie's messages on Sam's phone might say). And then the reality drops out the bottom for about 2/3 of the book. There is a little bit of clarity at the end, but even that is elusive at best. Overall, I would say it is a sort of amped-up, millennial version of a schizophrenic, anti-establishment story like Fight Club from a female perspective. A fun and interesting, if somewhat disturbing, read.  reading this book feels like getting a lobotomy, in the best way possible God this was truly awful. You know when you get a feel for a book and the feel is, ‘I don’t like this but I’m going to give it a chance?’ But then you give it a chance and it doesn’t improve? So that happened.As I read I thought this author must be very young and will be embarrassed by this in ten years. It’s like a much worse Fear and Loathing in Los Vegas but completely uninteresting.I would not recommend this to anyone.  Consider me SHOOKETH. “Tik tok sensation” should’ve given it away but honestly what a fucking dreadful book Okay, what just happened here?I'll quote one of the characters to explain my feelings about Bunny--"And then I feel like screaming JUST SAY IT. TELL ME WHAT HAPPENED. TELL ME WHAT THE FUCK THIS MEANS."The publisher's blurb doesn't even begin to capture what happens in Bunny. At first, I thought I'd be reading an R rated version of Mean Girls. As I read, I found that wasn't quite right, so then I thought, "Okay, maybe it's Stephen King does Mean Girls." It turned out that that description didn't capture it, either. The best I can come up with is "Stephen King trips on acid and writes an R rated Mean Girls."Bunny is so strange that it's hard to form an opinion, but I think I liked it. (Maybe my opinion will change after I sit with it a bit, or maybe I'll be equally as confused.) The weirdness did make some parts of the the plot hard to follow, but I think Bunny is supposed to be disorienting by design. On another note, I appreciated Awad's sense of humor, which is on full display when she describes the Bunnies for the first time. She definitely places us right inside the MC's head!This novel is so odd that it's not going to be for everyone, but I'd rate this a 3.5/5 rounded up to 4 stars.Thanks to Edelweiss and Viking for providing me with a DRC of this novel.  I appreciate the experimental approach to the writing, especially as the main character gets more initiated into the cult and the story started feeling like a fever dream. I also liked the satire with writing groups and the way they critique and the MFA environment. However, the characters and story felt too juvenile for my tastes, and it was hard to believe that they were adults instead of teenagers (you could argue it’s because they’re supposed to be out of touch and immature, but ehh). I think this would be cool to watch as a movie but it wasn’t really my thing as a book.  I want to be the person likes weird books but I don't think I'm the person who likes weird books. Booktube&nbsp;|&nbsp;Instagram&nbsp;|&nbsp;Twitter  I have no idea how i feel about this book. i actually can't tell if i liked it or hated it... I need to sit with this for a while  This book is pure demented madness.I loved it. I loved all of it and I think all of you weirdos should read it because you might just love it too. Just don’t ask me what it was about because I have no idea what the heck I just read and I am perfectly fine with that, haha!I was in a huge book funk when my friend Emily recommend this book to me as a must read. She knows her stuff and I listened and it was exactly what I needed. I blew through this book in two days on audio and was so involved at one point that I walked into the shower with my headphones still in my ears. By some strange turn of fate, I did not fry my earbuds or what is left of my brain and now I think may shell out some bucks for water-proof earbuds because I think I just found myself a few more minutes of reading time! I think you should go into this book as blind as possible and I’m not going to be the one to spoil any of its surprises and will keep it brief. Samantha is a graduate student working on her MFA degree. She has to go to “workshop” in order to complete her degree and, too bad for her, this workshop is infested with a cliquey group of young women who wear dresses with cupcakes and kittens on them, who only eat itty-bitty food and who twitter and coo and call each other Bunny. They ignored the darkling Samantha the previous year except to bitterly and cruelly critique her work. Samantha is pretty okay with the status quo because who the hell wants to be a Bunny?! But one day Samantha receives a rare and coveted invitation to one of their “Slut Salons” and isn’t sure what to do. But she’s as nosy as me, apparently, and against her better judgement she goes and the story pretty much goes batshit crazy from that point on and I couldn’t describe it if I tried. It truly has to be read to be believed. So go read it!This book is surreal, deliciously evil, and wickedly funny and the writing is weirdly addictive. It’s getting all the stars because I loved every single twisted turn and madness infused word within its pages. You probably won’t know exactly what you’ve read once you finish it but I bet you’ll be happy you read it.“The night is a dark earth I could dig my hands into forever.”  FINALLY I AM FREEEEE i think i had too high of expectations for this book because this gave absolutely nothing, i’m like so disappointed because i expected so much from this book 😭 and as a Heather’s fan i’m mad yall keep comparing because they share no similarities besides having all the girls share a name. It’s also not dark comedy cus aint shit funny in this book. I think for a dark academia book to have supernatural aspect it needed to at least explain that. I don’t mind unexplainable things or weird books but when you have supernatural things and don’t explain it, it comes off a bit lazy. i wanted to like this so so so much because i thought that the Bunny’s and what they were doing was intrigued but also by the end i was bored as hell and it ended up being 3 stars instead of 4. i have never felt as though i wanted more from a book by the end like i did for this book. im so sad guys :(  This is the strangest book I’ve ever read but I kind of loved it. I recently just read this for a video having absolutely no idea what it was about or what to expect but I’m genuinely surprised by how much I enjoyed this. I think the other reviewers comparisons are completely accurate, this story is: Mean Girls meets Frankenstein meets The Secret History meets Jennifer’s Body... and it also reminds me a lot of the movie Sorry to Bother You as well..?But this story is so fucking weird and strange and like nothing I’ve ever read before. And the writing is so damn good and interesting and kind of beautiful? But this story is fucking terrifying at times, and all the characters are bizarre but there’s just something about it... Here’s the reading vlog where I read this: https://youtu.be/uitYgdWObpk  I loved this book from its first sentence. I fell hopelessly in love with this book by the second page. After that I kept reading along in a fog of joy. What did it mean? What did I care? Sometimes I made small ejaculatory noises as I read along. Mostly these noises resembled swift soft barks of pleasure that weren't quite laughs, but were laugh-adjacent. And I guess you could say that I've finally figured out that what I value most in contemporary fiction is an original voice, along with (the illusion, at least, of) an author who is so filled with brash unassailable confidence in her talents that she knows what she's writing is utterly unique, and so she keeps on writing more of it, sentence by sentence, until she gets to the perfect ending as if led there by her very own personal literary god, a small-g god in this case--because this particular literary god is spritely, and pagan, and more than a little naughty. Yep.  i think i just had a fever dream where i was transported into a melanie martinez music video while tripping out on acid. i honestly might change this rating but i’ve never had a book leave me so confused pretty much the whole way through. sometimes it was too confusing to the point where i didn’t know why i was reading it and i felt like the dumbest person for not understanding, but other times i was just intrigued and wanting to finish it so i can get the answers i wanted. about halfway (?) through you get a little idea of what’s going on when she’s on the bus, and i definitely caught on and went oh my god that’s what this all is! but then there were so many other things in the story that had me confused and still asking questions. like what is this school? what happened between her and the professor? who exactly are the bunnies? i had a couple theories i dismissed early on which ended up being right, but it didn’t even matter because the way this is written is just meant to confuse you. even if you kind of understand what’s happening. like the randomest shit just gets thrown in here. i felt like i was going crazy. i think i felt my brain altering. i might be a little bit crazy now. will i never be the same again? would i recommend this book? i don’t think i can really say yes or no. i personally don’t regret reading it. and i will definitely never forget this book. because it’s fucked. lemme tell you that. i loved some parts and disliked others. i personally love the way it ended. it suits the book very well. but i can see why some people could hate this book.this was a wild ride to say the least. was confused 99.8% of the time but twas a once in a lifetime experience if i do say so myself. i mean, hey, understanding the plot of a book can be so overrated sometimes you know what i mean??  i dont know what the fuck i just read. i dont know why im emotional about it by the end. i dont know why i fucking loved it. ★★ /5This was interesting, but not captivating enough to hold my attention.I liked how the author wasn‘t afraid of taking risks. I found the characters interesting, but after a while, they blend into one another. The plot itself was fine, I particularly enjoyed the first part, but second and third become less and less interesting, shook factor didn't affect me after a while.This was a unique book, but it didn't blow me away.  “The poets brace themselves for imminent, overeducated poverty.”Samantha Heather Mackey couldn’t be more of an outsider in her small, highly selective MFA program at New England’s Warren University. She is utterly repelled by the rest of her fiction writing cohort - a clique of unbearably twee rich girls who call each other “Bunny”. But everything changes when Samantha receives an invitation to the Bunnies’ fabled “Smut Salon”...Wickedly funny and deliciously dark, Bunny is a messed up fever dream that I did not want to wake up from!!It’s best to know as little as possible before starting this one. I really had no clue what was coming, and it was a helluva ride! It gets very dark and pretty brutal at times, there are some violent scenes. However, this contrasts nicely with Awad’s often hilarious writing and the saccharine characters in their beautifully patterned dresses and heart-shaped sunglasses.There’s lots of “what the fuck just happened” moments and at times when I think back over it, I’m still unsure exactly what was going on at points. This would certainly benefit from a reread in the future! However, Bunny lives up to its reputation of a book described as “The Heathers meets The Craft” - I truly can’t come up with a better selling point than that! I’ve also seen it described as “The Secret History meets Jennifer’s Body”, which also seems absolutely perfect!Set at an Ivy League university in New England, this ticks a number of boxes in terms of location for me. It’s a book that also seemingly pokes fun at prestigious MFA programs and I feel like Awad has a lot of fun with that!It won’t be a hit for everyone, but I’m a tad obsessed with this book and would recommend giving it a shot if it appeals to you in any way! One of the most unique and enjoyable books I’ve read this year. 4.5 stars.  I have to give this 5 stars purely for the reading experience. I couldn't put it down. I was thinking about it when I wasn't reading it. It's like Mean Girls meets Suspiria. A satirical horror(ish) campus novel that will leaving you wondering what the heck just happened but you'll totally be on board with it. Or at least, I was!I can imagine this one being a 'love it or hate it' type of book. I don't blame people who don't like it but I really did. I had some small issues with wanting more explanation BUT at the same time, really appreciate that it wasn't overanalyzed? Maybe on a future re-read I will see new things I didn't pick up on the first time. Regardless, this made me want to pick up and read everything Mona Awad has written and I can't wait to do so, hopefully soon!  
  
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI need somebody smarter than me to read this book and tell me what they think happened because I am so confused. The first half of this book is a brilliant satire of liberal art schools and pretentious art schools via a sort of Stepford Wives medium and I was super into it. The Bunnies, like the Plastics from Mean Girls, were compelling Queen Bee figures and I was interested in their culty vibe.Then... the book starts getting really weird. Trippy, in the way that some of those experimental late-90s movies could be trippy, like Dark City or Being John Malkovich or eXistenZ. Trippy, in the way that I found myself sitting here and wondering, "What the hell is going on?"I ended up setting the book aside, half-finished, and I didn't get back into it until today. I skimmed the second half, and it got even weirder. By the time I finished the book, I was even more confused than I was at the first WTF moment in the book, and I'm not really sure what to think about BUNNY or how I feel. It's fitting that it shares a list with CATHERINE HOUSE because it shares many of the same problems. If you liked CATHERINE HOUSE, you'll probably enjoy this.I would read more from Mona Awad but this one wasn't really a bullseye with me.2.5 stars  Loved the snarky sentences for awhile, but riding the rollercoaster of caustic commentary has only so much charm - eventually this book starts to feel as mean-spirited and vacuous as the rest of our modern discourse. The ubiquitousness of this way of telling stories makes me feel like a sick and drowning rat in a raging storm sewer. This is not a feeling I turn to literature to have.If you suspect everyone may be a nightmare human and want to have those feelings validated, this is your book. Having had my own grad school agonies, I understand this was probably written in the heat of that very special circle of hell. But I need not dwell there to comprehend it. I quit before the end.  wtf?! i actually can’t even put it into words it’s so strange! i felt like i was on a bad trip the whole time, tbh i don’t think i fully understand what was real and what wasn’t… but how fun is that?! it’s so up for your own interpretation, but the feelings of being lonely, having no purpose or direction are definitely there really enjoyed it :)  Okay so I have no idea what the heck happened in this book. I got the basic premise: we follow Samantha Mackey, an MFA student at Warren University, an elite college school in New England. Samantha hates the Bunnies, a clique of four rich, popular female students who hug each other a lot and say fake nice things about each other’s writing. Samantha’s feelings toward the Bunnies start to shift though when they invite her to their Smut Salon, a night entrenched in mystery and erotica. After Samantha starts to integrate into the Bunnies’ clique, she begins to lose her sense of what is real and what is imagined about herself and others, just as I lost my sense of the plot of this book as it progressed.I found this book, especially the first half, pretty hilarious. I loved Mona Awad’s satirical writing style and how she pokes fun at the elitist and oftentimes classist culture that exists within MFA programs (which I think also exists at other institutions of higher education.) Certain lines cracked me up, such as when she describes the bunnies’ skins as “glowing with health insurance” and how one of the bunnies describes her “inaccessible and cryptic” writing as “proems.” I appreciated the themes of how individual identity can fold to groupthink, the allure of the unknown and the risky, as well as how the isolation of a writer’s life and of anyone’s life can elicit some pretty hectic and painful emotions and life experiences.I just have no idea what really happened about halfway in through the book. Perhaps that’s the point as several others also felt lost and still liked the novel – maybe that’s the point, like this book is an acid trip and you don’t really have to know what’s going on to enjoy the ride. I’m not sure whether I wanted a more navigable plot or a more consistent main character, because I found it difficult to care about or empathize with Samantha through the book. I feel that the book perhaps serves its purpose and description well, as a Heathers meets Mean Girls meets horror film meets snobby MFA mashup, though I wanted it to reach my heart more, regardless of whether that was the book’s intent.  I don't even know , what did I even read ? I'm just realy sad because I realy wanted to love this😿. I didn't find it fun or unique but just weird and confusing🙄2⭐⭐ Samantha is a graduate student with writer's block. She's from a poor background and doesn't really fit in at moneyed Warren University, where her four workshop partners have formed an insular clique. They call themselves the Bunnies – they literally all call each other 'Bunny' – and their conversations are studded with declarations of love, cliched Instagram-hashtag phrases and sycophantic compliments on the brilliance and originality of one another's work. From the sidelines, Samantha finds it nauseating, even as she nurses a deep envy.Something's off about Warren from the beginning. Though it's an Ivy League school, its environs are plagued by frequent incidences of extreme violence (random decapitations, for example). It made me think of Buffy the Vampire Slayer's Sunnydale – with all the weirdness erupting around Warren, there has to be something Hellmouth-ish about this place. As seen through Samantha's eyes, the Bunnies are putting on a grotesque pantomime act as simpering sorority sisters, their cutesy, indulgent personalities taken to such extremes that they cross over into horror. And when Samantha is finally invited to join the club, she discovers exactly how far and how deep that horror goes.The main problem with Bunny is Samantha's best friend, Ava. The way she speaks to Samantha is, I guess, intended as appealingly blunt – an antidote to the Bunnies' cloying, insincere sweetness – but it just comes off as nasty most of the time. An 'art school drop-out' who carries a flask of alcohol labelled 'Drink Me', says things like 'the breeze is my lover' and goes around wearing a fishnet veil, she's basically the 10 most insufferable hipsters you've ever met combined into one person. As it turns out, there are reasons for Ava's bluntness and clicheness, but I'm not convinced her appearances are meant to be as irritating as I found them.On the other hand, the Bunnies are ostensibly the villains, but they're great, such fun to read about. A mean girl clique subverted; identikit teen-drama bitches given agency, wit and dark appetites. They may be awful, but they're awful in such novel ways – airheads who are fiercely intelligent, saccharine child-women who revel in power and blood – that I loved them. The hallucinatory chapter in which Samantha submits to the Bunnies' hivemind is probably the best segment of the book: trippy, dreamlike, creepy as fuck. I wanted more of the Bunnies, more of Samantha-and-the-Bunnies, and less Samantha-on-her-own, less Ava. (Preferably no Ava at all.)The blurb positions Bunny as 'The Vegetarian meets Heathers', which is maybe more useful than accurate: the reference to The Vegetarian serves as a handy indicator of how incredibly weird it is, but tells you nothing about the story. Personally, I'd say Bunny reminded me of Marisha Pessl's 
  Special Topics in Calamity Physics
 crossed with the craziest, most far-fetched parts of David Mitchell's Slade House, and I'd be inclined to reference Buffy and Chilling Adventures of Sabrina instead of Heathers. It also made me think of Katie Lowe's The Furies, which in some ways is the inverse of this novel – grimly, disgustingly real where Bunny is all bizarro Technicolor – but both are about young women experimenting with black magic, and both are full to bursting with lush, overblown prose.It's just so much, but in a good way. And I would love to see a film or TV adaptation. My mouth is watering just imagining the luxuriant excess and creative gore of this story on screen.I received an advance review copy of Bunny from the publisher through Edelweiss.TinyLetter | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr  Umm no! Soo I am beginning to slowly figure out that horror books are not for me. Don't get me wrong, I like creepy books but this was all kinds of messed up. Way messed up. It wasn't even creepy, it was just plain weird. I am at a loss as to how to even review this. I mean exploding bunnies?! 🐰I don't hand out one star reviews, but this one almost got one. The only thing that made it a two star was I actually enjoyed the beginning. Samantha was struggling to fit in with a group of " girly, girls" in her class. You know the type that wear all pink, feathers and bows and call each other Bunny. Okay maybe you don't know someone like that but you get the picture. Samantha wasn't that "fluffy" type of girl. Or so she thought. Once they lured her into their lair and made her a part of the "bunny" club things went sideways. I enjoyed the initial rituals and drinking at the Smut Salon. I thought this is odd but it is working for me...then no..just no..Exploding bunnies, weird experiments...dead swans...yeah not for me. The beginning was intriguing, the middle insane..the ending...a letdown...Not even sure what to say. The cover is so damn cute...a pink bunny..how fitting.  Topping off my trio of weird reads this weekend is BUNNY. I'm not even sure that I understood everything that occurred in this book. In that regard, it was like a train wreck. The characters were so awesomely terrible, I couldn't look away! (Or is that HEAR away? Whatever.)This was the story of a woman, Samantha Mackey, (or Smackey as her friend calls her), studying as a post graduate in a snooty New England college. It's also about this ultra-annoying group of women, (who come off more as high school girls), that form a clique that no one, (read everyone), wants to join. And then Samantha gets an invite to "Smut Salon," and IT'S on. What THAT is? Still not sure!“Behold the lavish tent under which the overeducated mingle, well versed in every art but the one of conversation.” As for all the rest? Bunnies, weird dudes with axes tattooed on their necks, an outsider named Ava, snooty female professors, faintly lecherous male professors and one sweet, sweet guy who of course, is ignored.That's it, that's all I'm saying. I'm considering downloading and listening to this book again. That should tell you all you need to know.  "I love you, Bunny."Recommended, especially on audio!*Thanks to my local library for the free audio download. Libraries RULE!*  the secret history for chronically online tumblr obsessed girlbosses who belong in the psych ward  My reaction from beginning to end:????????????????????????????????????????I read this book because everyone says it’s the weirdest shit they’ve ever read. I’m now joining that group of people. Duh. It's just impossible to finish this book and remain sane at the same time.I'm so confused? I kind of understand the main goal of the book and part of what went on, but the rest is a blur. And I don't know if that's a good or a bad thing. The only thing I know for sure is that I would describe this book as a "fever dream" and not as horror. I would still applaud the author for what she was able to do. I always look for books that make me question the main character's credibility and this book was on a whole other level in that sense.My main complaint is not that this was too weird (even if I am unsure what purpose the bunnies really had in all of this) but rather that the pacing was off. I found myself very interested at times, and then very bored for big chunks. Which is not great if as a reader you're already trying to piece together things that don't make sense.  i want to know the author's creative process behind this (and by creative process i mean the drugs she was on) This is the strangest fucking book I've ever read. I'm not sure if it's fever-dream, schizophrenic stream-of-consciousness or surrealism satire but I still really liked this weird-ass book. Like watching Heathers while on acid. I may not be smart enough to figure it out but I couldn't put it down. while i overall liked this one, especially in how absurd it gets, i felt like it was lacking in the actual writing. it got lost in its own weirdness and lost the heart of the story a bit. however, i definitely want to read more by this author and would still recommend checking this one out. ESPECIALLY if you’ve ever had any experience in writing workshops.  2 starsWhether this was good or bad, I can’t really tell, because I don’t like books that I can’t understand the point of. this was a case of either I was stupid or the book was. I think it was the latter. Also, I just couldn’t with all of the bunnyism. If I hear one more bunny I might commit murder.  *Rated 3.5 stars!I’m just gonna go ahead and join the chorus of ”what the fuck?!”Ohhhh what to think about this one. It proved to be a quick read, it’s descent into apparent madness and the spiralling of cultish behaviour providing a claustrophobic and creepy atmosphere perfect for dark academia. BUT...sadly I needed more explanation. I can get on board with weird - and trust me, this book TESTS that claim. But whatever supernatural oddities were happening in this book had zero rhyme or reason to them, making it seem like a book just testing how weird we can push it rather than rooting it within believable logic/reasoning, as I would prefer. But hey, it was wild and fun to read.   While I really appreciate the weirdness of this, I ended up being bored quite a lot.  what the fuck?  I really hate writing negative reviews, but this is honestly just pretentious nonsense with absolutely zero substance. This tried so hard to be provocative, seemingly just for shock value? But it failed. Hard. Add in some of the worst “woman on woman hate” I have ever had to read, and a big old dollop of “women literally losing their minds over a man” and you have one huge pile of NOPE in book form. I’m actually mad read this. Whomp whomp.  if i wake up tomorrow and find out that i hallucinated this book i’m not going to be surprised. what the fuck did i just read? and why was it so good?  Reading BUNNY is like reading a panic attack.How to thoroughly enjoy BUNNY in a few easy steps:1. Know as little as possible about BUNNY before reading it, bunny. 2. Ignore the snarky writing in the first chapters. Just roll with it. Get used to it. You’ll find yourself suddenly not caring or ignoring it. Or maybe the writing starts to change. I can’t remember. 3. Prepare to feel disoriented, dizzy, and moderately anxious throughout most of the book. It’s OK to put the book down occasionally to reorient yourself into the real world and allow time for your brain to settle down. 4. Don’t get ahead of the story. Don’t try to figure things out ahead of time. Don’t assume you already know stuff. Just take things one page at a time and enjoy yourself, although your time may not always be enjoyable (see #3 above). 5. After you finish BUNNY, go for a walk and think about it for a little bit. Come up with your own explanation of what happened and what some of the main themes are in the book. Then, allow time to explore the internet for more details. 6. Try to forget about BUNNY, but you won’t be able to. It buries itself deep down in your psyche. It keeps popping up even after you’ve moved on to another book. It misses you, and you miss it, even though you still have some of the same feelings from #3 above. You’ve finished the book, and the emotions from #3 won’t go away. BUNNY won’t go away. You ask yourself if you’re going crazy. You take another walk and read another book, but you can’t follow the new book at all. It isn’t a book about bunnies, your new book, but the plot of BUNNY is somehow interwoven into this new book, and your walk, and your life, and your…7. …  October 2021:Reading Vlog: https://youtu.be/ce-CachMztYApparently I have been COMPLETELY mistaken about what was going on in this book the WHOLE TIME. I did a little Reddit searching for conspiracy theories only to find people who described the plot in its entirety that made everything make actual sense. I've been out here fantasizing. After finding that out, I reread it and was so happy to find I liked it even more. Still 5 stars. Still a favorite. I love Mona Awad's writing style. She is a fking weirdo writing books for other fking weirdos. I adore the way the Bunny's are described in this book. Unfortunately, I am not someone who pictures things when I read. But this book had me imagining everything down to the clothes. Ava, Creepy Doll and Vignette are my favorites by far. They are savage and iconic. Their brutal humor had me rolling.I annotated the sh*t out of this book. This is also the third edition of this book that I own. It is my only multiple edition book.Going to reread this one next Halloween hopefully.June 2020:whatthefuckwhatthefuckwhatthefuck  “Bunny” by Mona Awad started off really interesting and then goes into some very weird uncharted waters. I see this is considered a horror novel but it has elements of fantasy that ends up just making things really confusing when events and situations start happening.I personally didn’t mind it as it started to make me really engaged and excited to see where things were going. The problem is I started to notice that things started to get a bit boring with way too much dialogue that is repeated and not properly explained. I think if Awad spent more time explaining this whole bunny angle and putting a better horror twist on it, things could have gotten better as the novel progressed.Unfortunately, the buildup to the ending felt really flat. I was expecting so much more and even in my head came up with a few scenarios that could have really turned this into a blockbuster of a novel. It started out really creepy, lost some momentum, picked up a bit, lost more momentum, got super interesting/weird, then lost even more momentum, and then the ending came and it was extremely lame. I literally had at least two scenarios for the ending that was significantly better than what ultimately ended up happening. I was left with a “THAT’S IT?!!?!?” moment once I finished and I hated it.I felt the main protagonist, Samantha, was mostly a whiner from start to finish and the moments she could have redeemed herself never came. Every character with the exception of Ava and Max was uninteresting. I felt all the different “bunnies” made things even more confusing as they have nicknames, then real names, then they become interchanged so you start to forget who is who and just keep reading to see what happens because they’re too generic. Way too many pages dedicated to dialogue that didn’t really add anything when it mattered most and felt like it was rambling most of the time.I give “Bunny” by Mona Awad a 2/5 as her writing style is great but things could have been scarier and fleshed out more to the point where this could have been a better horror novel. I didn’t even feel this was even a real horror novel and felt more like a young adult novel with a weird dark fantasy twist. The ending didn’t deliver as I thought it was and it’s a shame, I enjoyed reading this to a degree due to the curiosity of what the hell was going on but it went downhill quickly for me at around 70% on. Overall, I ended up being pretty disappointed with this one and am looking forward to my next read.  Read this book if you like:- Drugs- Writing- Metaphors- Drug-fueled metaphors for writingDon't read if you like:- Bunnies- Sanity Personally, I understood Bunny as an allegory for the creative process, specifically writing.Themes include: originality vs plagiarism, belonging vs free expression, escapism vs art. Bunny also discusses class stratification and whether a sheltered life leaves one devoid of creativity. Those are by far not all the themes this book touches on, but the ones that stood out to me the most. I loved all the symbolism and puzzling over what it meant. What I did not love were the characters. I liked the antagonistic "Bunnies" most, but the characters I was actually supposed to root for did nothing for me. This was especially the case with Samantha, the main character. At one point, someone criticises Samantha's work, telling her that her story's protagonist is too passive and submissive, and although I see what Mona Awad was trying to do there, I don't think that simply stating your novel's problems within your novel magically makes them disappear. Still a very interesting and smart book that I enjoyed a lot.  4 STARS
  “We never joke about bunnies, Bunny.”
As per most of the reviews of this book, let me get my "What the Fuck" out of the way—that seems to be the consensus. This book truthfully is a fever dream of never really knowing what is going on or what is going to happen. My only wish is that it was DARKER.This book is strange... writing style is wild but I loved it. I found myself not being able to stop reading because the mystery &amp; oddness factors were intriguing and addicting. I honestly, still don't really know what the point of this book was other than just a weird read to pass the time and just for entertainment purposes? Maybe to just get in your head and make you think hard or not think at all.Although—there was no shock factor for me. More so curiosity just floated around my brain, as for the gore, it wasn't anything mind-boggling or queasy-inducing. So because of that, this fell a little lackluster. Give me that weird storyline but nothing to satisfy that deep part of the brain.I'd recommend this book to everyone looking for something weird. 
  “A book should be like an ax.”
Read this with my bookclub girls. SNAPGURLS Book Club  0.5/5 mhmmmm. well that was pointless.  This was everything i’d ever want in a book. It was weird, it was unhinged, it had so much more going on behind the surface than I initially thoughtBrb pre-ordering Rouge Dziwna przyciągająca….UWIELBIAM JĄ. 5/5stars10/26/2019: honestly even better the second time i fucking adore this book Jonah is my baby boy if i could interview one author besides murakami it would be Mona Awad cause I just need to get sOME ANSWERS9/23/2019: This was fucking FANTASTIC. If you love the same books as me you need to get this on your radar ASAP - one of the absolute weirdest books I’ve read- magical realism- BEAUTIFUL but also creepy af writing- dream like- if murakami wrote an NA book with mostly female main characters set in New England this would be it- NA NOT YA PLEASE DONT THINK THIS IS YA !!- masters student rep and seriously it captures being in grad school so perfectly omfg- did I mention this was weird as fuck- characters are some of the most fleshed our characters I’ve ever seen in such a short novel- weird- as- fuckPICK IT UP YALL  All the stars!! I loved it so much!!! What a rollercoaster. So weird, gory, and messed up, and the ending also really moved me. So sad and sweet and then sad again. And ultimately more weird 😂 This witchy, fucked up book is gonna stick with me forever!! This was fucked up, weird and utterly phenomenal.I feel like this is one of those books that I could read 5 times over and I'd still be discovering new things about it. Absolutely wonderful, highly recommend if you're into reading  weird shit .  the best way i can describe this book is: disorienting and bizarre. despite correctly guessing some of the plots twists, i was thoroughly confused by what was happening. the beginning grips you instantly as you get to know the main character, samantha mackey, as the book is told from her perspective. there were many great aspects of this novel. i liked the drama, the suspense, and the twists. it made it more interested and made me feel more invested in the plot. mona awad is a great writer and her prose was so fun to read in this book. however, this novel was a bit underwhelming for me. while it started off great, the intrigue begin to dwindle a bit as the story progressed. i found myself getting a bit bored at times and the story seemed to lull too much, especially in the middle. it felt a bit repetitive and after a point, i was just wanting to finish it so i would be able to move on and read something else. overall, this was an interesting read. if you want to read something that will keep you constantly guessing and wondering what is going to happen next, you should read this book3/5 stars  i need a blunt to help process uhm…so…. 😹😹 wasn't that weird— overall: 4.5 —*All of my reviews are as spoiler-free as possible unless stated otherwise*what do I even say??No, I'm kidding. I know what to say.Someone said that if you hate this book, you're gonna hate it. But if you're into it, you're gonna love it. And I 100% agree. If you're not into the plot and the humor doesn't sell from the beginning, you're gonna have to power through a lot. But if your humor is the surreal, witty, observational, and/or dark kinds (like mine) I think you're gonna like this.There are too many “what the hell is happening” to scenes and I couldn't help think what the point of all this was... But I just could not stop reading.Taking the plot out of context, it sounds like a cliche clique story. And honestly, it kind of is. But the way that the "horror" elements were brought into play gave it a unique voice and made a plot that I didn't think I would enjoy make me stop listening to the audiobook just to pick up the ebook because the audiobook just wasn't going fast enough.
  “I hope you find your book, Samantha. Maybe it will find you. Sometimes, you know, that happens.”
It ends on a hopeful note if you were wondering and this is easily a book that I see people wanting to get back to again and again. It's weird... but it's the fun weird. Ya feel me?
  “We never joke about bunnies, Bunny.”
I'm not the biggest fan of the writing style just because there were times when the conversations weren't written in the traditional way so it made me skip over them sometimes. But something was done right because it kept me energized to keep reading. With that said, I'd recommend not reading the audiobook in this very rare case and stick to an ebook or physical copy.It's fast-paced and a lot of things went down, exactly my type.Even though this is labeled as horror (and trust me, I see why) and I wasn't scared or anything, I have just accepted that perhaps I don't scare easily when it comes to books. Definitely creepy and weird , I think this is what is called body gore? body horror? something like that. But if you're intimidated... you should be. Kidding! The cult girls were the scariest part for me to be honest and probably my best friend turning into a swan and getting chopped into piecesThere were really strong elements of friendship that I enjoyed immensely. I don't know if I can say that I like how everything ended just because I was expecting more but it wasn't bad. This genre also just might not be the kind of books that I enjoy the utmost but it's been a splendid time.That... organism... you know, Max? Yeah. My favourite character. Just what he meant to Samantha, his role in the plot, the reflection of his character, what his character meant in general... ohmygod??? The character are well-written in general and as a character driven person, that did a lot for my enjoyment.It's HELLA funny. As if I haven't already said that.High on my recommended list if you are looking for something in the dark/horror genre that is not too heavy but is for sure on the creepy side.
  “Behold the lavish tent under which the overeducated mingle, well versed in every art but the one of conversation.”
tw// animal killings, body horror  the epitome of what the fuck but in an addicting way A horror novel set in a prestigious MFA program with a distinct Heathers vibe is one hell of a hand sell. But I just can't resolve that this bunny coven is comprised of grad students. These squealing mean girls with their ski jump noses and peach fuzz cheeks endlessly hugging and filled with mutual adoration feel like they're pulled from CW central casting for the latest high school drama. The Plastics with literary pretensions set their eyes on outsider Samantha Heather Mackey and are determined to bring her into their Care Bear coven where horror quickly ensues.It's grindhouse fables and ancient myth meets Alice in Wonderland by way of Riverdale High. It's shitty first drafts and killing your darlings. It starts to feel like it's comprised entirely of metaphors both literary and authorial and ends up so far up its own asshole that it needs to unzip just to be heard. The thing is bonkers sure, but I wanted more of the fun of a teen horror flick and less meta commentary about the MFA process. Still, lots of literary bingo to be had picking out the varied references scattered throughout.  Dnf. I just can't. The writing is ugly. For a book where so many "strange" things are happening how can I be so bored? It's bland. The characters. The Bunnies are so the same that when reading you can't even tell who said what. You know how in some books you can tell the author has changed characters because the tone has changed? Well in this book there is no difference between the characters. The tone is exactly the same for each person. The characters are so generic that there is no specific characteristic about them that makes you want to continue reading. This is a book to me that seems like it tried too hard. It tried too hard to be cool, to be interesting, and to be something different. Unfortunately it was none of these things. It's like the author has never had a conversation with another person and she's been living in a cave and just stepped out and assumed this is how other 20 year olds talk to each other. It's repetitive and tiring.  Se ti piace l'idea di perderti tra il reale e il fantastico, se ti piace riflettere su ciò che questa cosa ti lascia in bocca.....beh, allora leggi Bunny! Bizzarro, surreale, unico e non propriamente per tutti.Ci saranno momenti in cui dirai:" ma che cazzo sto leggendo? Sta succedendo veramente?" Eventi strambi, se così si possono definire, ma ti prende così tanto che vuoi sapere,sapere,sapere...Un sogno febbricitante, causato da droghe e alcol. Vedrai unicorni colorati, cupcake zuccherosi, coniglietti famelici e sangue.All'inizio,dico la verità, sembrava che le bunny fossero una caricatura delle bratz (le bamboline con la testa grande, ma supe fighe) e non ero sicura che mi sarebbe piaciuto.Ma " Bunny" è malato, fuori di testa, da lettura compulsiva.Un'esperienza gratificante per chi ama questa sorta di realismo magico e contorto.Bunny ti fotte la mente, vedrai conigli in ogni dove, conigli, conigli, conigli e dirai anche tu "ti voglio bene bunny, ti amo bunny, sei perfetta così bunny"  Bunny is just so very. You know? So. Very. I don’t even know how to put the jumble of fragmented WTFs and Huh?s tumbling about my brain into a coherent review, so I won’t even try. I’ll just say that this is the most confusingly fascinatingly unique labyrinth of a novel I’ve ever read. And while I have no idea what was real and what wasn’t, or even what the real purpose was, I enjoyed the f*ck out of reading it. So here’s 5 stars, and I’ll come back with an update once I have the chance to reread and ruminate. I’ll miss you, Bunny!! 👻*trigger warnings for graphic violence  This book is bananas.B-A-N-A-N-A-SWhat are the limits of creativity and friendship? In the world of this novel, the answer to that might contain more blood and guts than your average MFA program (but really, what do I know?)I liked Awad's previous novel, and this one is a bit more gritty, a bit more fantasy-based. I was pushed over the edge to read it when Gwen and Frank from The Librarian is In podcast (NYPL) chose it for their summer read.  Hahahaha…What the f**k! Dark, weird and deliciously good! Like a fever dream in book form. I love you Bunny 🐰 Ok, ale totalnie nie wiem co o Tobie myśleć książko Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 Stars
  “We never joke about bunnies, Bunny.”
A new release with comparisons to an old high school fave?????
  
Obviously I had to read it. But now that it’s over I’m not exactly sure what to say. I stumbled across another review that said this book was so far up its own ass it wasn’t even funny. I’ll give you that Bunny is a book that is up its own ass, but that’s kind of the entire point . . . and it's most certainly pretty funny. Please don’t get to thinking I suddenly believe myself to be smart enough to pick up on alllllllll that was being put down, but I did read a pretty bigly chunk of this with a smirk on my face because it was exactly what comes to my mind as soon as the term “MFA” starts being dropped around places such as Goodreads. I even chuckled a time or two while reading about the Ivy League elite’s creative struggles . . . . 
  “Now Eleanor, I hope you’re not writing about a boy too,” Fosco says. Eleanor suddenly smiles. “Of course not, Ursula. I’d never be that stupid. But as it turns out I brought the wrong story,” she says looking at me. “My mistake.”
And I can totally relate to how hard it is to get shit done with a bunch of stupid Bunnies fucking everything up and when not-so-boyfriend-material book boyfriends keep coming along to ruin a potentially good time. The only thing that would have made this better was if it were a musical. That would be absolutely . . . . 
  
I have no clue who to recommend this to. Freaks and geeks???? Or anyone who seeks out experiences like this . . . . 
  
Or anyone who would want to be in a book club with someone like Mitchell.  This was bonkers and I LOVED every second of it!! From upstairs, I hear more screams. "Don't you guys hear that?" They look at one another. Genuine confusion troubles their brows. "Hear?" "That screaming?!" "Your beauty is like screaming, Samantha," says Beowulf, touching my face. He strokes it with his gloved hand, like my skin is the most delicate pet. The lights go off. There's something pretty creepy going on at a prestigious New England college . . .  Samantha, a grad student, has so far avoided getting involved with the four other impossibly glamorous gals in her writing workshop. A strange quartet, they act more like tweens at a slumber party than women in their twenties. They dress in candy-colored clothing, hug a lot, squeal, and call each other "Bunny." But one night, curiosity gets the better of Samantha, and she accepts an invitation to their SMUT SALON. Turns out, the Bunnies like to get up to some really, REALLY weird shit.  This is a decent work of literary horror, meaning it has more in common with Frankenstein than It. The author goes to some dark places, mixing rainbow sprinkles with blood, and I honestly had no idea what was coming next. The only problem I had was not enough Bunny.   Bizarre as they were, I was pretty taken with the eerily fascinating hive mind of the Bunnies, and the bits when they're not in the book were a lot less . . . colorful. The ending is clever, and nasty, however, so I'll give it four stars. Awad both intrigued me, AND made me nervous. I'm not sure I'm looking forward to what she comes up with next, but I'll definitely read it.  Book Blog | Bookstagram
  “We never joke about bunnies, Bunny.”
This was described to me as Clueless meets Heathers and quite frankly, what millennial isn't going to want to read that, like STAT? ASAP? OTHER ACRONYMS?For the first quarter of the book, I was like, what is this actually?? It's really weird and subversive; where is it going and what is it doing and I'm not sure what's happening? SOMEONE HELP ME!?But I stuck with it and slowly, as you get into the heart of the story, it starts to make more sense (but also does not, purposefully.) Yes, it's fucking bizarre and hard to categorize, but that's the beauty of Bunny. It's like taking literary acid. It's meant to trip you out. And if you're expecting that going into the reading experience, then you'll probably enjoy it more than if you're expecting this to be a jump-and-scare kind of horror novel. Just sit back and let it happen. The more you freak out, the worse it's going to be. Taking place in a highly selective, and hilariously portrayed, MFA program at a New England university (called Warren, because that's where rabbits live,) the setting of this world is perfectly vibrant in its satirical absurdity. It definitely has a Heathers/Mean Girls vibe to the structure of the female characters. That sinister and fake, but syrupy sweet energy that pulls you in, even though you're objectively uncomfortable the whole time.Samantha, a creative writing student in the MFA program, is completely put off by the preformative clique of four other female students in the course who call themselves The Bunnies. Samantha's morbid curiosity about the Bunnies is too much to ignore when they randomly invite her to something called a "smut salon" at one of their houses. Attending the mysterious gathering against friendly advice, Samantha slowly finds herself drawn further and further into the Bunnies.Dare I call it a fucking cult? Because that's what it feels like. At least, Cult-LiteBefore she knows it, Samantha is fully under the thrall of the Bunnies, her personality and style overtaken. There's lots of weird shit happening at the smut salon meetings that include experiments on live rabbits, only eating miniature food and a big special project that the Bunnies describe as "a hybrid" and "so intertextual."I really just want to take a moment to applaud Mona Awad on her ability to create dialogue and prose that ring so true, while also exacerbating the satirical ideas behind the Bunnies and the MFA program.
  “You want to fuck, not be fucked,” Victoria says. “Samantha,” Eleanor intones, “is this making sense?” I stare at them all through Kira’s pink heart-shaped glasses. This is how she must see the world all the time. I look at their dark pink faces, so suddenly grave. I should call the police. I should run to Mexico. “Totally.” 
The Bunnies are the most bizarre antagonists I've read in a book since I can't even tell you when. Bizarre, but beautiful. They exist in a hyper-described state, one-part satire and one-part exposure of what it can feel like to be friends with fake people. It's cringingly reminiscent of growing up as a girl just trying to make friends and fit in. It's also eerily reminiscent of introverts who live in their own head, particularly writers. By the end of the book, you will have to look deeper to find out what was real and what was imagination - what was real and what was an MFA writing piece. Deeply satirical, perfectly written and highly disturbing, this is a work of literary horror that is so audacious, it is quite honestly, unforgettable.And it doesn't hurt that the author is Canadian. READ IT. ⭐⭐⭐⭐ | 4 stars  Are you a Bunny? Safely wrapped in a group of like minded friends, with cupcakes, glitter, and boring?Or are you an Ava? An outsider, fearless, pushing the limits, and interesting?This is graduate student, Samantha’s fantastical quest to sort out which way she wants to write/live. Not a journey for everyone because the writing is uber creative, it has gore and grittiness and it is supremely funny (the mocking of academia and MFA programs, pretentious writing, poets, cliques of girls). Awad plays with the reader’s mind just like Ava does with Samantha and vice versus. Awad writes Pinkie Pie into the story and that is just hilariously bunnified!  This was so weird but I liked it so much ?? this book is so me vibes cuz I'm also a feminist that has psychosis Wow??!! This book was so incredibly strange and unique! I didn't really understand what was going on for the most part of it, which seems to be the consensus amongst most readers. Despite the constant state of confusion, something kept me intrigued enough to continue reading. Not sure how I feel about the ending, or if I even understand it. I'm interested in what this author will write as a follow-up to this novel!  I thought this book was the embodiment of the crapThe Bunnies were reading in workshop! I read through chapter 8 and then randomly flipped through to see if the story line changed. No. I think this is a joke. Why all the praise?  Let me tell you about this book. About this weird f*cking book.This book is the kind of book I would have never picked up if I knew what it actually was about, but because I went in mostly blind, I read it, and I somehow got pulled into the story. I think that might be the only reason this book is read by people because it catches you off-guard with its strangeness. Think about the weirdest book you've ever read, and then multiply that weird factor by 100 and then you might get close to this book.I can't describe how this book made me feel, whenever I think about it, I'm just at a loss for words, so I'm just going to tell you what happens in this book so you can join me in whatever this feeling is. CW: bestiality, sex, p*rn, cults, murder, death.Samantha is in this writing class with these very cliquey group of girls (the "Bunnies") who call each other bunny and are just overall very weird. She gets invited to this party - which turns out to be a smut reading party (you do you, I guess), but this is only where the weirdness starts. Warning: major spoilers ahead.  This clique of girls turns out to be more like a cult, and in the cult, they - with some kind of weird magic I guess -  turn bunnies into boys . Yeah you read that right. They turn bunnies into boys, which for some reason involves the bunny exploding? And when the boys don't turn out like they wanted to, they butcher them with an axe. Yeah.And if you thought this was the only weird part, oh no, you are wrong. There is so much more where that came from. What do they do with those bunny-boys you ask? THEY USE THEM FOR SEX. Technically this is bestiality?? I sure hope nobody is checking my browser history because I just had to google how to spell that and I'm not even sure I got it right but no way I'm going to google it again. Apparently animal p*rn is just one google search away, and I sure did not want to know that.You'd think Samantha should have just run out and never returned, right? But no. She seems to be under some kind of spell, or just very drugged because she keeps hanging out with them. And one night she is asked to create a bunny boy, which failed and she somehow remembers she hated these girls and gets out.Flash forward to a few months later: Samantha is back in touch with her best friend and moved in with her. The best friend has a boyfriend which is, she finds out, the bunny-boy she created on that night but didn't realize she did. And he's very freaky. And all the Bunnies are in love with him too. Because it turns out she created the boy as an act of anger against those girls and he's tearing them apart with jealousy?? But he's also the best friend's boyfriend so she has to tell her. Imagine having to tell your friend "yeah I'm sorry, but your bf is actually a bunny that I made at a cult sex party", that isn't going to go over well.The best friend gets killed (with an axe because obviously?) and she and bunny-boy find out it's the Bunnies. They confront her (with the axe obviously) and it all goes sideways and more shit goes down. And that's basically the major storyline.also, there's a scene in which Samantha gets kidnapped by more bunny-people who pretend to be her teacher and want to kill her and I'm just really confused what the point of this scene was and how it fit into the story? But I'm guessing the Bunnies might have made those bunny-people to get back at her??? Idk. It's all just a shitshow of evil bunnies and axe murder and sex parties and if you've read this far: congratulations you've made it through the mess that is my head right now.I wish I could give you a good conclusion to this, or some redeeming qualities, or anything, but I'm honestly still stunned. I cannot understand why or how or what. It's too beyond me. Is this some weird sexual fantasy gone wrong? Am I just too ace to understand it? I have no idea.  I am very confused. But so is everyone, it seems?  I loved the idea and the first half of Bunny. The Mean Girls/Frankenstein mashup is actually a pretty good mix, and the ambiance is dark and mysterious. The writing is excellent! just disappointed with some plot points, but it’s purely personal. I was hooked really quickly and anticipated so many storylines, but ultimately disliked the plot, and the ending left me lukewarm at best, so I feel a bit disappointed after such a strong start. I guess this is a book that you absolutely adore, or strongly dislike, or just have no idea like me what you think.  Ugh....this book....this damn book!!!Aspects of this book were brilliant while others were shockingly vapid. I literally hated parts of Mona Awad's Bunny. But I loved others. This damn book...The best thing I can say is that it's a fantastic book for discussion and debate. I think anyone who reads Bunny, love or hate it, will have a lot to say about it.   I liked the idea of this book more than I ended up liking the execution.&nbsp; A horror&nbsp;novel set on a college campus surrounding a toxic friend group sounds like a recipe for perfection, but I found the result a little uneven.&nbsp; I didn't dislike reading it, but I also didn't find it nearly as weird or groundbreaking or darkly funny as other readers have.There was a sort of disorienting quality to this book that I didn't particularly enjoy.&nbsp; As you read you have the feeling that there's something just outside your grasp that remains integral to the plot, and that feeling of being slightly unmoored was never compensated with a compelling enough hook to make me really care to figure out what it was that I was missing.&nbsp; It's one of those books that sort of sat in that nebulous grey area between being a chore to read and a pleasure.&nbsp;The thing that I did&nbsp;absolutely&nbsp;adore about this book was the ending.&nbsp; No spoilers, but suffice to say I found the resolution well worth waiting for.&nbsp; And I feel I may have been overly harsh here, but expectations were high and I just didn't enjoy the ride nearly as much as I hoped I would.  have been reading lots of reviews for this book after finishing it aaaaand i am still not sure what's reality and what's not🫣 what What the heck did I just read? Bunny starts as an interesting premise, where graduate writing student Samantha is part of a weekly workshop. She’s been struggling to write new content lately and doesn’t care for the teacher or the clique of the 4 other girls who also attend her class. They call each other Bunny and almost always move in a group, rarely criticizing each other’s work but gladly offering criticism of Samantha. One day, they unexpectedly invite her to their exclusive Smut Salon. Samantha ditches her only friend, Ava, in order to attend. Samantha is quickly brought into the Bunny rituals, and soon, can’t distinguish between reality and the Bunny world. While the premise initially piqued my interest, this one faded fast for me. Part 2 especially lost me and I found myself skimming a lot in this section. I would describe Bunny as Mean Girls (minus the humor) meets The Secret History (minus a cohesive story), with a major side of delusion, aka: not for me.  Um... I don't know... anything anymore...? This is my first weird and messed up horror story. I truly had no idea what to expect. And I still sort of... have no idea what I just read.  “We never joke about bunnies, Bunny.”Please enjoy some pictures of my gorgeous little man, Moonstone (otherwise known as Moony, Bun-Bun or the less dignified Furry Potat). He is a one year old, free-roam angora bunny whose favourite foods are raspberries, dills and my hair. Not exactly the kind of creature you picture on the cover of a horror book, right? That's why, when I saw this book, I knew immediately that I had to read it.Moony in a food comaOverall, I liked this book. In fact, I ended up going through the whole audiobook in one day (basically, I couldn't stop listening to it) - so if anything, it was very entertaining and kept me wanting more. Nonetheless, this was far from a perfect book. First, the characters: I loved the Bunnies, the whole mean-girls-style clique, their sugary attitude and looks, the way they speak, act and interact with each other and with everyone else. But I just didn't connect with the main character: I get that it was probably meant as an "unlikable" character, but still. She seemed so unpleasant to me that I couldn't care less about her and what was happening in her life, and honestly when you read a horror book you kinda want to care at least a bit about bad things that can potentially happen to the "good" guys. Basically, the moment the book stopped focusing so much on the Bunnies (around halfway through), it lost 70% of the appeal it had on me. Moony's glorious furry behindSecond, the plot. The whole idea behind it was interesting enough, even though it felt more suitable for a young adult setting, being a sort of mash between Mean Girls and Charmed; I enjoyed the development enough, and the whole "slow and steady descent into madness" theme, as the events and the writing style become more and more confusing and weird was satisfying enough - but again, not very original. Third, the writing style. I think the author definitely knows what she's doing but again, the weirdness, the somehow "open" ending that leaves you wondering, I mean, not a big fan of it. I think you have to be a great writer to develop this kind of plot smoothly, and I think the author is good, but not that good. In other words, a fun enjoyable book that makes you wonder "did I really get that right?" a couple of times, keeps you entertained enough as long as it lasts, but definitely didn't leave any durable effect on me. I do think it would make a great movie though :)  What in the name of fuck did I just read?“Bunny” is a book that defies genre classification with what is either a tongue-in-cheek wink or a pretentious flourish. It is either an incredibly clever satire, or the most self-conscious MFA spew, like, ever. I think that’s why the reviews for this little thing are all over the place: because depending on which extreme of that spectrum you look at it from, it will either be trash or genius.There are lots of attempts to summarize it as a blend of various works; the best I can think of is the Lovecraftian version of 21st century “Alice in Wonderland”, hallucinogenic trips and itty bitty cupcakes included. But also, you know, magic and murder? Or maybe “The Secret History” as written by Heather O’Neill?Samantha feels like an outsider in the exclusive creative writing program she attends, in a very fancy East Coast university. She is alienated from her thesis advisor, suffering a serious case of writer’s block and can’t quite see that her only friend has feelings for her. But worse of all is having to do writing workshops with a gang of girls known as the Bunnies. Impossibly beautiful, impeccably but eccentrically dressed, those girls seem to live in a little world all of their own. They have names, but call each other “Bunny”, hug each other so tightly it looks more violent than friendly and talk in unbearable mock-baby-talk. Needless to say that Samantha hates them and wants nothing to do with them... until they invite them to a little soirée they refer to as their Smut Salon. Before she can truly understand what happened, Samantha is part of their strange little gang, and bizarre, bloody things she can neither explain or fully understand start happening.Awad’s prose is gorgeous: the images she creates are vivid and sensuous, lush with disturbing details - you know, the kind that look cute from afar but are super creepy when you look a little closer. It’s difficult to look away from such weird images, and I kept wondering what fresh weirdness she would throw my way with every page. She mercilessly eviscerates the insufferable arrogance of art students, and while Samantha makes it clear that she loathes her “peers” and can see through their poser act, is she really that different from them? Is the Ivy League MFA a literal or metaphorical cult that students get assimilated into sooner or later? Is this an allegory about losing one’s mind for one’s creative process or is it simply a horror millennial fairy tale?Picking up this book might be risky, because it truly is a love it or hate it kind of book. You might even go from loving it to hating it and back a few times in the process. It gets 4 stars from me because I loved that Awad referred to the Cramps and that she loves raccoons and swans as much as I do. But to be quite frank, I would have loved it even more if she had turned the sexy dial up a notch. I get that classic fairy tales tend to be fairly sexless, but I think this one could have used just a little more dirt.  What did I just read?! Okay. Imagine the dark humor of Heathers, the body horror of David Cronenberg and the dystopian speculative fiction of Black Mirror all coming together in a bizarre fever dream that’s sort of a satire of the creative process and MFA programs.Because that’s what this is.Samantha is an outsider in her creative writing program at an elite university. When a group of cult-ish popular girls known as the Bunnies invite her to their Workshop to help get her out if her writing slump...let’s just say their creative process is not what Samantha was expecting.At first, everything teeters on the edge of uncanny, just normal enough to exist in the real world but as if at any second it could veer into a surreal nightmare. And then it does. And the lines between reality and delusion, creativity and sanity, agency and passivity begin to blur. I loved this weird book. It loses a little bit of steam in the final act, but it’s so strange and exciting and imaginative that I’m giving it 5 stars for being fully committed to its own strangeness and for delivering such a fun ride down the rabbit hole.  3.5 stars ☆ honestly, idk what to rate this book because there’s just a lot of times where i’m confused on what’s happening but I couldn’t stop reading🧍🏻‍♀️It was very interesting and got me weirded out.  4 STARS. Why did it take me so long to read this book? 😱 You guys know I love weird books and this was hands down the WEIRDEST book I’ve ever read. I didn’t even know what I was reading half of the time, but I enjoyed it nonetheless 🙌🏼⁣⁣What I enjoyed most about this book was the imagery. Part of the reason why this book is so incredibly disturbing is because of how vivid the details are 😳 I truly felt like I was reading a movie at times because I was able to picture everything so clearly. Another thing I loved about this book was how unique it was. There is nothing I can appreciate more than when a book is completely different from anything else I’ve read, which is why I enjoyed this one as much as I did! ⁣⁣Really the only main issue I had with this book was that I never fully knew what was going on. I loved the uniqueness and the crazy imagery, but it was almost too weird to where I didn’t fully understand it. I have a feeling there was a much deeper meaning to the book that I just didn’t get, but that’s the reason why I didn’t LOVE this book. The ending also didn’t make sense to me so I’m not even really sure what happened there, but all I know is I really enjoyed the reading experience 😂🙌🏼 This book definitely won’t be for everyone, but you guys should check it out if you’re looking for something crazy and different! ⁣⁣TRIGGERS: Rape, Animal Death⁣  "We're not bored in the slightest, ever, ever."I loved Bunny SO MUCH. I had no idea what to expect with this book, and it was amazing. I don't want to say very much about it because you deserve to experience this insanity on its own. Bunny is one of my favorite books I've read this year so far, and it's such an entertaining and unique story. This book had everything I wanted, and some additional weirdness sprinkled on top. Go read it!!  If you like poorly-written, pretentious millennial garbage, this book is for you! If you love repeated use of expressions like “gave side-eye,” and long jealous descriptions of expensive, twee clothing and make-up, then you probably won’t detest this weird, unfortunate book. I was up for a fun, silly book. The mental equivalent of Mean Girls and Heathers, but those were fun and stylish and they worked. This book doesn’t work, it’s not fun, and it is not stylish. Avoid.  I picked this up because I have Mona Awad’s sophomore novel as an arc so I wanted to get in on her first one. This book feels like a literal fever dream and I’m still not entirely sure what just happened. It reminded me a little bit of Mean Girls and AHS: Coven. The Bunnies are super cliquey and are obviously a cult but at the same time they’re getting their Masters in writing and that is what I call great time management. I do think some of the writing caused the story to get lost, as Samantha’s inner monologue drags on for along time sand she wasn’t exactly likable either, she just complained and pitied herself a lot. I expected this to be weirder than it was.. Don’t get me wrong this was weird and the best way to go into this is blind, I really had no idea what I was reading and where anything was going. It just kind of falls off in part three so that disappointed me. I don’t even know still what just happened and there’s probably some hidden deeper meaning but it went past me.   What a wild ride! Funny, fast paced, and deeply profound at its core, Bunny will pull you in from the first page. This was such a pleasure to puzzle together, each twist and turn came together beautifully at the end. This novel does something so difficult with amazing finesse; an incredible statement on desire, mental illness, and toxic education culture. Highly recommended!   2020 Best Books of the Year [#05 of 11] And the most original novel of 2019 award goes to... Mona Awad's 
  Bunny
! This book is seriously a concoction of oddball camp meets horror. Try following along with Awad's quirky new release without saying "WTF?!", I dare you.
  Bunny
 takes place at Warren University, located in New England. Samantha Mackey is a student at Warren University, in a select MFA program that is only afforded to the creative or wealthy. Samantha has been given assistance because of her writing capabilities, but often times feels like an outcast in her class. This boutique group has only a few peers residing in the same classes, so this tight-knit community definitely gets to know each other easily. Samantha's best friend, Ava actually dropped out of the program, leaving Samantha to fend for herself. Samantha's semester has just begun, and this time she's caught notice by this peculiar group of young women in her class that call each other "Bunny". The Bunnies consist of four women, all with distinctive characteristics of their own (and Samantha humorously makes fun of throughout the novel). Samantha is approached by these women and is invited to a night with them called the "Smut Salon". Ava shuts down this group of ridiculousness quickly, but Samantha is intrigued. As she gets to know the women, Samantha starts gravitating away from Ava, and into the magnetic arms of these women. Once Samantha starts getting involved in their off-campus "Workshop", she knows that she's too far in to seek help—she's a Bunny now too.I read a ton of thrillers every year and I'm noticing that I'm getting sick and tired of reading the same regurgitated horror themes every time. 
  Bunny
 is not one of those types of books. I still am unsure what I read exactly—that's how original this story is. It's campy, it's bonkers, it's thrilling, it's bizarre. It's honestly exactly what I needed to read. If you're looking for a ridiculously horromedy, I'd definitely recommend 
  Bunny
. I was completely caught off guard with this book, and that's very unexpected. I did not foresee how the story was going to be mapped out, and I was surprised in the direction that it went (in a good way). 
  Bunny
 is just as intriguing as the synopsis leads on, and you'll find yourself pushing away responsibilities to find out exactly how the story will progress. After reading 
  Bunny
, I can't wait to see what's next for Mona Awad.   
  ... perhaps a Moorish prince with kohl-lined eyes, familiar with unorthodox hair-braiding techniques and the writings of Sade. An Other but not a so Scary Other that he won't be able to make her tea with the dainty gestures of an anemic Englishman.
Wow, this is a blast! Firstly, Awad can write - her prose is fizzing and dynamic, surprising and just so fresh. Add to that a weird, funny, oh-so-knowing storyline that shoots off allusions in all directions (the campus novel, Mean Girls, The Secret History, Twilight-esque tweenie books) while also paying homage to Angela Carter's dark, feminist versions of fairy tales The Bloody Chamber and Other Stories) and managing a blisteringly funny exposé of Creative Writing programmes. And piled up on that are observations on female friendship, Romance (definitely with a capital R), fantasies of love and friendship, the way eroticism is culturally constructed and the complicated relationship it has with violence.I could see traces of Ottessa Moshfegh and Joyce Carol Oates in the dark and canny mix - two of my favourite contemporary authors. My only slight criticism is that the pacing can be a bit slow in parts, but this is so original, and manages to be clever, funny, creative, icky, a bit creepy, and sui generis all at once. Many thanks to Head of Zeus for an ARC via NetGalley.  A decidedly trippy and twisted read, Bunny is a book you’ll finish likely unsure of what, exactly, you just experienced.What began as a cynical and razor-sharp send-up of Mean Girls evolved into a brilliant trip into the horrific and uncanny. I’m not sure what I liked more: the snappy examination of college life or the author’s portrait of female relationships. A strange and addictive book that hasn’t quite left my mind, Bunny is a book without any visible flaw. A true experience!   DNF - I thought there was nothing worse than another pretentious MFA Iowa Graduate book waffling on and trying to be “deep”...turns out reading about being a Graduate is way worse!!! The moaning alone drove me crazy...check your privilege and get over yourself! I listened to the first 3hrs and nothing happens...it then all starts to get weird but by then I was so sick of the whining I just wanted out!  Every bit as weird and wonderful as promised. 2.5 starsRight… Now I understand why there is a pretty universal consensus that this is a pretty crazy novel. I also don't read too much horror so that's another thing to consider before reading this review. That being said, I wouldn't say that I am a person who is turned off by not being 100% sure what is going on in the plot or if things are left up to interpretation. For example, the ending of The Lost Apothecary is very up to the readers interpretation but in that case I thought it worked. Here, I don't really understand what the point was. But again, Margaret Atwood thinks this is great so what do I know.
  "I love you, Bunny."
We follow Samantha who is an outsider in her university writing course. The other members of her group formed a clique that is called the Bunnies (a la the Plastics from Mean Girls). This clique however, has a weird fascination with bunnies; in fact, they all call themselves 'Bunny'. Samantha is on one hand repulsed by this group of girls, but on the other she's also weirdly drawn to them. Despite the warnings from her friend Ava, Samantha slowly gets pulled in to the cultish group and things go hay-wire from there.Truth be told, when I finished this book I thought I experienced some sort of narrative whiplash. I had to watch a few reviews to understand why other people thought what they did. In addition, I watched the interview between Mona Awad and Margaret Atwood for some more context behind the creative process. Now that I did this extra research, I see what the author was going for, but I don't think she achieved everything she set out to do. There are definite merits to this book; I thought it was fine but missing its mark.In the interview, Awad says that she wanted to explore the link between creativity/imagination and loneliness. Looking back through the book, there are some pieces of foreshadowing that link this theme to the ultimate resolution of the book. And overall this link is one that is explored through Samantha's struggle to write and the way her writing is not accepted by her professors. There is a very shocking conclusion to the story that is supposed to reign in this idea very clearly, but it uses a trope that I don't love and it also feels very chaotic. I'll talk about this more in the spoiler section. My main problem with why I thought this week was so all over the place was that it felt like it was trying to do too much on a surface level, and not dive deeper with any specific thing. This led to my confusion.Plot wise I thought that the first third was the best, the second part was okay, and the third part left me very confused. The beginning of the book truly follows Samantha being indoctrinated into this weird clique of girls and their semi cultish practices. This was especially intriguing because the Bunnies are such vibrant characters. As Samantha started to get to know them on a closer level, so that the reader. And these girls are so enthralling that you have no choice but to want to get to know them better and understand why they are so obsessed with bunnies. Awad also uses an interesting writing technique where she experiments with names and pronouns. Each Bunny has two names: one given to them by Samantha and the real name (for example, Victoria is also Vignette). And depending on what the scene is and what connection Samantha has to the girls that affects which name she uses it was really interesting to see those patterns through Parts I &amp; II. This is told in the first person perspective, but Awad plays around with the use of pronouns, changing between "we" and "I". Those linguistic devices helped the reader see the novel through Samantha's eyes but also try to piece together what the overall thematic expression was supposed to be. In Part III, this all falls apart. At that point, there are too many almost micro-themes that are shoehorned into the story but don't serve any purpose other than maybe adding a superficial layer of "depth". Intrigue wise as well, because Parts I &amp; II were more obvious with what the aim was, they were easier hook you in and make you interested in what was going on. Part II lost all sense of coherence so I have no clue what was meant by the ending; getting there in the first place was a struggle because I just felt lost and I didn't understand the consequences of anything so I had no investment in the progression. Other than the Bunnies, the other two major characters that are involved with Samantha are Jonah and Ava. Ava is more important for the emotional and plot development of the story. Problem is, I thought she was insufferable and not in an interesting way. I like to say that all the characters in The Great Gatsby are insufferable, but at least they're intriguing so you're motivated to read about them. Ava was just a person who hated everything for no reason and that's it. So when she started to get more involved in the plot, I honestly thought it was a nuisance. Jonah, on the other hand, has literally three scenes and is super underdeveloped for the role that he is ultimately supposed to play. I wish we could've spent more time with him, but we didn't. There are also other characters like the Lion and Fusco, the professors, but although they end up playing a semi important role towards the end of the book, I am still confused about them and what the point was of involving them so heavily when Jonah was right there.Now I will talk a little bit about spoilers:  Don't we love the trope of "it was all in her head"? And the worst thing is, we are never really told which parts were real. Leaving things up to interpretation is fine and can be a powerful tool when used right; this was not it. Think when you have a central theory and you want to encourage a discussion, having an open ended finale can be very powerful. Having different takeaways depending on what you're reading of the text can encourage a conversation amongst readers that can be very productive as new viewpoints are brought up without you yourself having to have the final say on what the "correct interpretation" is. Likewise, it can be used as maybe a pun/breaking-the-fourth-wall like Shakespeare does in The Tempest numerous times. Here it felt cheap, like it was done for shock factor: it was almost as if the author was saying "ha! You didn't see that coming, did you". If we were so overloaded with potential themes and motifs maybe this ending could've inspired a helpful conversation. Alas, I'm not sure what this means: is this talking about how when we are lonely/bored we conjure up separate realities as coping mechanisms? Is this talking about the differences between the male gaze and female gaze? Is it talking about how we tend to vilify hyper-femininity? Privilege? Maybe Samantha being the only one to create a working Hybrid shows that to create things of value, you have to have your own world-view and not try to passively assimilate with the popular beliefs (shown by the failed Hybrids of the Bunnies and how they eat tiny everythings)? Or is it a critique of the pigeonholing effect that academia has on students? Because of the thematic over stimulation, I have no clue what to think, I have no clue where to start analysing this even though it had so much potential. I think if we cut out perhaps 50 to 75 pages and highlighted 1 or maybe 2 themes, not 10, this would be much more coherent without losing that element of mystique. Then again, this is just my opinion.Lastly, I'd like to touch up on the writing style. Pretty universally people seem to like it. Personally, I thought it was pretty annoying. I've read a few reviews where the person says that they thought the writing was witty and addictive. Unfortunately, I didn't click with it. It felt very close to what I like to term "overly quirky language" in romance novels that really pisses me off, but with a darker twist. That being said, most people like the writing style so if you're looking forward to reading it you're most likely to like it as well.Overall this is a book that had potential but lost me. Funnily enough, I hear that there will be a movie adaptation and I think it will work much better. Once we take away Samantha is hyper focus on all these tiny motifs, we will have a much more directed conversation and narrative. Because a movie doesn't rely too much on the narrator, I think this is what will happen and thus I think it will be better. Moreover, this book is very visual and I can't wait to see how the scenes and characters (especially Bunnies) will be brought to life.  3.5 stars. An outsider at her exclusive university, Samantha is horrified yet fascinated with her fellow cohorts - known amongst themselves as Bunnies. But when she's invited to join one of their secretive parties, Samantha can resist them, and is drawn into their rabbit hole of secrets and lies. I'm....not entirely sure what I just read, but I think I kind of enjoyed it. Part Mean Girls, part Heathers mixed in with some weird messed up magic, and a hell of a lot of bunnies, it's hard to place this in any one genre. It's satirical in its presentation of popular girls who underneath the pretty cupcake and sparkly unicorn exterior hide a layer of rot and nastiness. Samantha, immune to this mask that the Bunnies present to the outside, is our eyes and ears into this world. She's everything the Bunnies aren't, down to her unique creativity and imagination, which makes her exactly what the Bunnies need in their group. I loved the characterisation of the Bunnies. They're like a hive mind, thinking and acting as one yet also still maintaining an independent existence. There's a clear leader in The Duchess/Eleanor, who dictates what the group do, but the others develop their own personalities too. I also really liked the relationship between Samantha and Ava, which feels genuine yet also rather complicated as Samantha falls deeper into the world of Bunnies and boys. The ending is also completely wonderful and fitting. I will say that I'm not keen on stories which fail to explain the magic and/or the mysterious within its narrative. That's just a personal thing - I'm logically minded. Bunny definitely falls into this category, dancing that line between the real and not real, the dreamlike and the grounded. At times you're never quite sure whether what Samantha experiences is really happening, and it feels very disorientating. Certainly unique, and absolutely absurd, I know I'll be thinking about Bunny for a long time.  Bunny is probably one of the hardest review I've done so far. It was odd, strange, cutsey but also Gorey in some parts. All way trough I felt like the reading experience put my brain in a fog and now it's over I'm not sure what I've read. The feelings this created as well as the atmosphere of the book was an experience on its own but while the story was good I can't explain any specific moment in the book. It's was a reading journey for sure. 4 stars as I didn't quite like the end even tough I'm not sure I got it fully. A reread is definitely something I need to do in one point  4.5i finished this yesterday and i still haven’t processed what i read. i have nothing to say JUST READ THIS We call them Bunnies because that's what they call each other. Seriously. Bunny.Example:Hi, Bunny!Hi, Bunny!What did you do last night, Bunny?I hung out with you, Bunny. Remember, Bunny?That's right, Bunny, you hung out with me and it was the best time I ever had.Bunny, I love you.I love you, Bunny.And then they hug each other so hard I think their chests are going to implode. I would even secretly hope for it from where I sat, stood, leaned, in the opposite corner of the lecture hall, department lounge, auditorium, bearing witness to four grown women – my academic peers – cooingly strangle each other hello. Or good-bye. Or just because you're so amazing Bunny.I really liked Mona Awad's Bunny – it's sardonically funny, but with very sad underpinnings (like Eileen or Martin John; two other books I loved for the same reason) – and it goes to some unreal extremes to explore loneliness, outsiderness, and the ways in which women can choose to support or destroy one another. It does have a Mean Girls in the Ivy League vibe, but layered on top of that are dark and twisted fairy tales come to life – which works so well. When I read Awad's Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Fat Girl, I wished it had more literary oomph; this is the novel I was looking for. (Note: I read an ARC and passages quoted may not be in their final forms.)As Bunny begins, Samantha Mackey is starting the second year of her MFA program at the prestigious Warren University; the only full scholarship student among her all-female cohort. These other women are from very rich families, they clique together and dress like juveniles, and they all write aggressively feminist fiction with mythical twists. (The leader of the pack, whom Samantha has nicknamed Duchess, writes inscrutable “proems” on glass sheets with the dagger-shaped diamond she wears around her neck; the other Bunnies and their workshop advisor – whom Samantha has nicknamed Fosco – lap it up while Samantha rolls her eyes.) After suffering a year of her cohort giving unhelpful criticism during Workshop – accusing Samantha of writing gritty outsider fiction for its own sake – she finds herself suffering writer's block just as she is supposed to be using these last two semesters to polish up her thesis. I don't always love books about writers (especially books about struggling to finish an MFA), but Bunny delightfully skewers the premise:They all watch me walk toward the stage at the center of the room, where they're all seated as though they're in a play. In what Fosco likes to call the “Hermeneutic Circle”, aka a “Safe Space” in which to bravely bare our souls to one another in the form of cryptic word art. Evoke our alchemical experiences and experiments. “In which our work will perform the Body and the Body will perform our work.” Whatever that means. Even after a year at Warren, I'm still not totally sure. Meanwhile, Samantha has spent the summer hanging out with her new friend, Ava – a snarky freewheeling artist who backs up Samantha's unflattering estimations of her program and the Bunnies – but when the Bunnies make gestures to include Samantha in their circle, Samantha is inextricably drawn to them; even if it imperils her relationship with Ava. After attending their “Smut Salon” and participating in their off-campus “Workshop”, Samantha will be shown what “performing the Body” really means.Bunny is ironically self-aware: Samantha internally critcises the Bunnies for writing about mythological lovers, and the Bunnies vocally criticise Samantha for writing outsider fiction, and yet Bunny is an outsider story that darkly references myths and fairy tales. I don't know what “the work performing the body” means either, but I especially loved Awad's metaphors about the body: When he looks at me, I feel my rib cage open like a pair of French doors. Everything that keeps me alive suddenly bared and there for the taking. Or: I want to scream. But I just sit there. My smile is fixed on my face, nailed there, though it jerks under the pins. And this is definitely feminist writing – so many of the metaphors are about the female body: Fosco looks at her class “in her probing, intensely gynecological way”. There is a pause “so pregnant it delivers, consumes its own spawn, then grows big with child again”. Ava explains about the Bunnies: “These cultish girls...tried to eat her soul like a placenta”. From the intriguing line-by-line writing, to the surprising and insightful narrative, and the art that Awad employs to bring it all together, I loved everything about Bunny.  I started and quit this one back when it came out, it just wasn't the right time. But I loved this year's ALL'S WELL so much that I knew I needed to come back and give it another shot and I'm so glad I did.BUNNY is a dark and delightful counterpoint to all the campus novels out there. The campus novel is a subgenre I have approached with more trepidation each year, as it becomes clear that almost all of them are set in colleges I never could have afforded and are populated by students who are utterly unaware of the pricetag on their attendance. The campus novel is hardly ever set in a state school or a community college or the kind of place most of us attend, it is for that other set of people, who coincidentally make up a lot of writers and publishing people, who come from money and look for that specific kind of prestige. All of this context is important for BUNNY to mean anything to the reader. Our protagonist Samantha is an outcast among the small group of other fiction writers in her program, the rest of them all rich girls with almost identical, carefully curated tastes who all call each other by the pet name Bunny. Beyond that, nothing in here is following the campus novel tropes. Not a single thing. The novel shifts several times, shedding its skin to become one thing and then another. You don't always know where it's going and its surprises shouldn't be spoiled. It is a bit interesting to come back to this after ALL'S WELL, which certainly has similar notes in tone, style, and subject matter. But her newest novel feels more like a complete whole, while this is not really that kind of book. It technically has a structure but it is more about the twists and turns along the way than it is to getting to any particular spot. I am not actually sure that is a weakness, I think BUNNY is exactly what it intends to be, casting off expectations and living comfortably in its surrealism, still quite far off from the dark-fairy-tale pieces it will occasionally remind you of. I did this on audio and the reader really went for it in a way that I found quite satisfying. Though I think some readers may find the voices she gives for the bunnies too cloying but I found it used to excellent effect.  Where to even begin with this book? I want to say everything and absolutely nothing, because I adored it, but I also want the reader to have an unspoiled experience. Especially because you will read this one and simultaneously shake with laughter while whispering "what the actual f*ck" to yourself. It's that hilariously twisted. I read almost the entire book in a single afternoon.I will say that BUNNY is about a group of annoyingly "Heatheresque" girls who attend a prestigious school's MFA program and only eat tiny food while wearing matching hyper-feminine outfits like Lilly Pulitzer on crack, and constantly call each other Bunny. Samantha Heather Mackey is the only other student in a workshop with the Bunnies, and she's forced to endure their cuddling and cooing while they critique each other's writing. Samantha is forever the outsider, and while the Bunnies have nothing but gushing praise for each other's work, they have nothing positive to say about Samantha. Then suddenly one day Samantha find's an invitation from the Bunnies to their private "Smut Salon" and it seems too good to be true. Before she knows it, Samantha is drawn into the bizarre and deeply disturbing world of the Bunnies. And this is where I stop before I give too much away.This book is everything I hoped it would be and so much more. I already want to read it again, if only to mine it for the amazing quotes that are throughout the entire novel. I had so much fun reading this twisted tale, and I cannot recommend it enough. It's so bizarre and hilarious I literally couldn't put it down, and just sat in a chair and read for most of the day yesterday. Pick this one up. You will be glad you did.  4.5Mona Awad’s Bunny is weird as hell and also so, so good. If you smash together the morbid weirdness of Ottessa Moshfegh’s books and then throw in a bit of Heathers and Jennifer’s Body and Donnie Darko, then this is what you get. It’s a bonkers and off-the-wall tale that was a delight to read.Outcast Samantha Mackey attends the MFA program at Warren University, an elite university in New England. This small program consists of four other women who all affectionately call each other “Bunny,” something that Samantha actively makes fun of with her best friend Ava. But when Samantha is invited to a Smut Salon with her Bunny classmates, all hell breaks loose and Samantha has to come to terms with what these Bunnies are concocting.This is a refreshing and twisted read that doesn’t care about answering questions. It sets a peculiar and unnerving and fun mood. There is definitely a plot, so don’t worry, but it’s definitely crazy. I implore you all to read this. I had such a good time. The writing is infectious--you simply have to keep reading to find out what happens next. Bunny is campy horror at its finest, and it’s definitely one of my favorite reads of the year.  Wild.wiiiiiiiiiiiiiillllddI can't think of any other way to describe my experience reading Bunny. You should have heard me explain this book to my coworkers:snooty liberal arts school...mfa student...all female cohort...gossip girl-esque clique or cult...dark magic...animals turning into people...i think...possible mental illness...or not?there's an axe...This novel is freaking weird. But also weirdly compelling and electric. I can't think of anyone I'd immediately recommend this to. But if you're at all intrigued and decide to pick this one up, PLEASE let me know what you think.4 stars  About as interesting and slur filled as a r*chel hollis book. The disgusting way this author writes about Rromani people is fucking wild and really disturbing. Watch out because this bitch is ableist as fuck! Less pretentious than d*na tartt but just as ignorant and obnoxious. This was very boring and I truly didn’t care about anyone or anything that was happening.“Eat Me.”🌷👻  Imagine if Palahniuk decided to write fan fiction of The Secret History while tripping and watching Mean Girls. That’s... about as apt a description as I can give.  mean girls on drugs (feat. a cult and women in power) I didn't love it although I was really hoping too. It got a little tedious to be honest, trying to figure out what was real and what wasn't Okay, so this book is heavy. And by heavy, I mean mentally exhausting. At least it was for me. It's one that might horrify you, get under your skin, or worse, do both at the same time. Before I get to the review, which will probably be short, I had a song playing in my head the whole time, one of my favorites, Old Heart Falls by Katatonia. Spin it up; it has a depth of emotion and lyrical prose that I think encapsulates most of the emotions found in this book to a T.Hmm. Where do I begin? The book follows a writer as she prepares to graduate from a prestigious art school. She does not fit in, has trouble making friends, lives in a grimy apartment, and does better expressing herself through her art than she does with words. The initial pages do a good job setting up the school and its students, but as soon as Sam starts to hang out with the Bunnies (an entitled writing group), it plunges into ghastly horrors that only a nightmare would conjure up.All I will say about the plot is that it is definitely not for the faint of heart. It deals with some pretty distressing subject matter, but if you stick with it till the end, it makes sense. It uses familiar archetypes that, although extreme at times, have a payoff. I’m not quite sure "payoff" is the correct word to use, but all’s well that ends well.Let's put this another way. Have you seen the movie Saw? You know, the one with the puppet on a bike that traps people in precariously dangerous situations where they must choose to either leave missing limbs or succumb to their fate. Well, this book is kind of like that, but replace the extreme physical torture with more mental torment. I think we all do our best to quell extreme loneliness and the desire to belong, but it always seems to creep in from time to time, and for Sam, she has an interesting way of dealing with it.Would I recommend this book? Hmm. That’s a tough one. Again, it deals with matters that are more horrific than what’s on the page. I know that doesn’t make any sense, but it would be a major spoiler to bring up what that is or what I think that is. I’d say its very relatable, but if you said that to a friend and they had just read the first half, they may raise some eyebrows at you the next time you interact. Lets just say the author shines a light on a subject that might be close to home for some but oh so foreign to others.So I started the review with a song, so let's end with one that fits with the ending and is much more uplifting. --You're Not Alone by Lionville.   who am I? am I alive? i simply love books that confuse me and leave me in the dark the whole time  What the actual fuck… Believe what everyone's saying about Bunny - Mona Awad's latest novel based on her experiences studying for an MFA is totally bonkers. Imagine if Ottessa Moshfegh had written Mean Girls and then chucked in some witchcraft and a bit of the plot of the movie Heathers and you'd be on your way to understanding what reading Bunny is like. While this isn't really my "thing" on paper (I'll fully admit I requested this because of the hype surrounding it), and while I'm sure it won't be for some I found this unputdownable. Set in a college campus in a town called Warren (yep) where people are decapitated across the university on a reasonably frequent basis, we follow Samantha, an MFA student who views a clique of girls - the Bunnies of the title - on her course from afar with a kind of morbid/jealous fascination. Samantha is a bit of an outcast (only having one friend, Ava, an art school dropout), and against her better judgement becomes embroiled in the weird activities the Bunnies after they invite her to their "Smut Salon".I'll leave the plot summary there to avoid spoilers, but if any of the above sounds up your street I'd implore you to pick up Bunny - there's something weirdly compelling about this novel and it's certainly the most unique book I've read so far in 2019.Thank you Netgalley and Head of Zeus for the advance copy, which was provided in exchange for an honest review.  She shivers at the view of the grand trees, as if they're not trees at all but something truly vile, like all the rosy-blond light that seems to forever bathe the campus is about to punch her in the face like a terrible fist of rich. There is no way that summarizing Bunny 's plot or that any review I write can do justice to what is really going on in this book. Yes, it is about a group of young women in a grad school creative writing program. Yes, things get crazy and strange. Yes, the plot is blurry and sometimes confusing. BUT what matters here is Mona Awad's awesome writing, which is genuinely something else entirely. It is hypnotizing, it is hilarious, it is sad, it is beautiful and interesting and can convey a wide range of impressions and feelings, including horror. Even if you don't like the characters, even if you can't follow the plot, even if it drags from time to time, it is a thoroughly original voice and it.keeps.you.reading. By the way, I personally loved every single character, every single game Awad plays with them, every bit of karma coming back at them, every snarky remark, every sarcastic observation, every single Bunny.As of now I have read everything Awad has written and I want more! I immediately need more of her writing... The pink pony inside me weeps softly.   well that was fucking awesome! i really enjoy weird books in general, but especially anything to do with cults. i don't have too much to say about this one because i think it is a book you should go into with minimal prior knowledge, but one of my favourite things mona awad did in her writing was use samantha's voice, and specifically how she was addressing others (as bunny vs their real name) throughout the second part. i found it super interesting because it represented her headspace in connection to the girls at the time and how deep she had fallen down the rabbit hole (pun intended XD). i thought that was done so well and really enhanced the depiction of cults and fit in well with her interesting yet gorgeous writing style!this book is definitely not for everyone, but if youre into dark academia, cults and books like the secret history but with more of a feminine twist, check bunny out!  این کتاب یه کابوسه؛کابوسی که حداقل ۵ تا قرص خواب آور ۲ بطری مشروب ۵ تا پیتزای درسته و مقدار زیادی آت و آشغال شب قبل مصرف کردین.خوشحالم که تموم شد!پی نوشت: باید چندتا پست و ویدیو توضیحی و تحلیلی میدیدم تا میفهمیدم چی‌به‌چی‌ بود تو این کتاب. داستان درمورد سمنتاست، یه دختر نه خیلی پولدار(؟) که توی یه دانشگاه خیلی گرون داره درس میخونه و میخواد نویسنده بشه. توی کلاسشون یه گروه از دخترا هستن گه همدیگرو *بانی* صدا میکنن (لباسای صورتی کیتی و صدای نازک و ... ) و سمنتا توی جمعشون حضور نداره‌. ازشون متنفره و در عین حال که به نظر میاد خودشو از اونا بهتر میدونه، خیلی دلش میخواد که تو جمعشون پذیرفته بشه. تا اینکه یه روز یه دعوت نامه براش میاد که یکی از بانی‌ها سمنتارم‌ دعوت کرده به ورکشاپشون...  I feel like I’m on fk acid rn but like in a good way  I'm going to need 5-7 business days to process this Is Mona Awad okay? Is she rich? Can she pay for my therapy sessions? I haven’t been the same since I read this book last year. I think my brain made me forget to review it to protect me from reliving the memories. I read most of it while sick with COVID. It was an ideal situation. I was feverish, and Bunny is debatably the product of a fever dream. It’s either that or Awad was under the influence of shrooms or LSD when she wrote it. I refuse to believe someone could write a book like this sober. I can’t remember why I initially rated it 3 stars. Probably because the ending didn’t match my expectations. I expected the final plot twist to be that the entire book is a figment of my imagination. If I didn’t BR it with Noel, I would’ve believed that. Conclusion: stay away from swans, wolves, and of course bunnies. Have you heard a bunny scream before? I have! And I’m still traumatized.  The most unbelievable part of this book BY FAR is the excessive amount of platonic female hugging/arm linking/general touching. I for one have touched my best friend no more than 3 times ever, with at least two of those being accidents. Lily: feel free to confirm. Expect disorientation going into this one! It’s weird but it’s fun. About 3.5/5 for me!  the found family trope is everything. so wholesome and beautiful. This book made perfect sense to me.  4.5/5 stars This book is unhinged and I loved it. It’s so smart and funny and SPOT ON about creative writing majors. I was one for 2 years and my god can some art students be the most insufferable twats ever created. The way the Bunnies and Fosco (their teacher) dole out praise or criticism is the funniest fucking thing because IT DOESN’T MEAN ANYTHING! Just words for the sake of sounding better/smarter than another person. I loved it and all that stuff made me laugh every time.Now. Samantha. Oh, Samantha. This girl needs therapy ASAP. And probably a whole cocktail of SSRI’s because holy moly girly you are not okay. Reading from her POV was so dark and twisted (just like her writing pieces that all the Bunnies hate) yet I loved every second of it. She is stuck in another world because she hates and doesn’t fit in the one she lives in. She lies constantly because her life is so boring to her that she needs to lie to herself to keep on living. Her mother is dead, her father is a failure, and she has absolutely nobody. I’m sorry for all that shit Samantha, but on the bright side, it made her a good main character :DAnd then the Workshop in Kira’s attic happens. And HOLY SHIT. What a ride. This book goes off the rails in the best, most gory way. I was hooked. It doesn’t help that Awad’s writing style is amazing and incredibly compelling, with the most vivid and fucked up descriptions possible. Even trying to say out loud what happens in this book is impossible because it sounds ridiculous but when you’re reading it, it’s like “oh yeah that’s cool I see that” ????? How does she do that? Because this book does get fucked up. Not extreme-horror level but … fucked up. It’s amazing and I hope lots of other people enjoy it just as much as I did because this will definitely stay with me for a while. 4.5 STARS GO READ THIS BOOK THANK YOU  Edit: after thinking about it more, I'm upgrading this to four stars. It deserves it.-----------
  We never joke about bunnies, Bunny.
Talk about a mind-fuck. I can honestly say this is like nothing I’ve read before.I was 100% sober while reading this, but somehow I'm also pretty sure that I was high. Reading Bunny feels like being on psychedelics. And I'm kind of lost on what I can say about it. To quote karen: "this book is straight-up bonkers." At times it's bleakly funny - I think the Heathers comparisons have merit.God, I fucking love Heathers.Bunny is like a lavender cupcake with a poison center. It's Heathers meets Jawbreaker meets Annihilation. But of all these things I've compared it to, it is undeniably itself. It's very much a book that can't be easily described, only experienced.And what a fucking experience.Thanks to Edelweiss and Viking for the review copy!  3.25 stars? i guess. it was a good read. i had a few problems with it but i also had fun. the writing was almost hypnotic sometimes. unfortunately the feverish style seemed like too much at one point. the story was different from what i expected, but i was pleasantly surprised with the direction it went in. i did enjoy the ending, it was a rather satisfying conclusion.another thing is, i definitely wanted more about the bunny girls. they were mad and i kind of loved them. creepy doll and the duchess especially. huge wasted potential in jonah's character, too. i wish he had been more important.samantha was such a specific main character and being in her head, her thoughts was so exhausting sometimes. also, maybe that's just a little meaningless detail, but the fact that the characters kept repeating her name like maniacs drove me mad. samantha, samantha, samantha, just all the time, non stop. or was it done on purpose? fuck knows. either way, i didn't like it, it just felt unnaturalwell, yeah. some complaints, some compliments. i'd recommend it to those who enjoy dark comedies, bonkers stories and ridiculous horror.  Let me start off by saying I dig weird... and I knew before I picked up this book that was what I was going to get. I'm just not sure if it was an enjoyable weird.There were times I couldn't wait to see what happened next, and times when I was counting down the pages I had left.I finished it hours ago and I'm still not wholly sure how I feel about it. Definitely glad I read it, but it's not one I will pick up again. I'm just going to go with it was good, and middle of the road it with 3 stars.  Bunny was honestly the weirdest book I ever read. While reading this I had no idea of what was going on, The writing style is very unique, but the whole time I was having trouble understanding some of it. The ideas behind this book feel like a mix of Mean Girls and Frankenstein, but overall I enjoyed it.4 stars I love you Bunny"Thanks to Penguin Group Penguin books for this arc  What did I read? 3.5 stars. The vibe, concept and weirdness of this book are 5 stars but I was just a bit bored sometimes??? one of the most bizarre books I’ve ever read! so so unpredictable. the whole thing feels like a fever dream. mean girls meets heathers meets the craft!! would love to see this adapted into a movie. This book was an impromptu read with my wingman, Brad. I had no real idea of what I was getting into but liked the first 2 chapters when he let me sample them (he discovered the book).Samantha is a student at Warren University but a total outsider thanks to not being rich. Moreover, while she likes to delve deep into dark fantasies for her poems and other writings, her peers are ... barbies. Sorry, there is no other way. They like everything punk and glittery and talk like Cinderella's mice after a not-so-healthy dose of helium.But then why does Samantha kinda long to belong with that group of creepy-ass, superficial, pretentious girls?Well, that is revealed along with the reason for the book. Kinda. Because once you think you have this figured out, you realize how much book is left and just when you realize that, the plot hops around like a bunny and gives you whiplash. Not necessarily in a bad way. It's more like a character from a horror movie walking down a dark corridor and we all KNOW there is a jump-scare just waiting for us, but when it happens, we jump out of our skin anyway.The writing was as weird as the plot, let me tell you. Highly appropriate considering the level of crazy we have to deal with here though. *lol*I can't honestly say that I ENJOYED the book, but it was pleasantly DIFFERENT.  ultimately i think im a bit too dumb for this one 🩷 4.5They should really make this a movieInsta Review:Where do I even start, Bunny? 𝘑𝘶𝘴𝘵 𝘥𝘰 𝘪𝘵 𝘉𝘶𝘯𝘯𝘺!!!!Ok Bunny, you‘re literally SO smart!! :DBunny revolves around the life of 25-year-old student Samantha, who‘s enrolled in a writing program at Warren University. There she meets 4 girls who call each other "bunny". She and her friend Ava despise them until Samantha gets an invitation to one of their parties. Little does she know that the party will change her entire life.Bunny is absurd, special, unique, extraordinary, just something totally unexpected and grotesque. I had no idea what to expect when I started reading this book and I feel like it‘d be best to just go into it blindly. I‘ve never read anything about cults (only "The Wave", if that counts) and my knowledge about them isn‘t great, so I feel like this book perfectly portrayed how easily you can get sucked into joining a group of adult girls that wear bunny ears for fun.    I NEED MORE  of this omg. Unhinged women in fiction are the lomls. This entire book was so weird but so good. I don't know how Awad came up with this concept, but I'm so grateful she did. The writing, the characters, the plot - literally amazing and outstanding. Also the ending ???? HELLOO ??? loved it. absolutely adored it. I loved every single part of this book and honestly I would read a 1000 page version of this story if I could. Reading about hot girlboss cults is the greatest experience mankind has created. Highly recommend trying it out.  spoof on MFA program, some of it was non-reality…in the protagonist's messed-up head To me, the book really sucked, got great reviews, hard to believe why. Bunny was so so trippy. The entire book is a fever dream induced coma. 10/10 recommended. This book was so insane and I had a marvelous time watching this book drift into insanity :))
  “Don’t trade one kind of blindness for another.”
Bunny is a book where I lost brain cells... and gained nothing but it's still a four-star because I love losing brain cells apparently :)☾☽ Synopsis This book is about Samantha Heather Mackey at New England's Warren University on her MFA program. The rest of her writing group are these really weird really icky rich girls who call themselves and each other "Bunny"–like a cult. "Creepy Doll, aka Kira. Vignette, aka Victoria. And of course, the Duchess, who in another life is merely Eleanor. " She gets invited to join them at the "Smut Salon" – the Bunny's place for meeting and a lot of stuff happens and the only way I can describe is "Frankenstein-esque"☾☽ Plot *insert butterfly in the sky sound effect* Brain cells were lost, pieces of my friend's sanity were shed while I was talking to them about the plot.... it's so eerie. Like Samantha and these girls get involved really quickly and I could NOT guess what was going to happen next, I read this in like two days despite mee pyat (electric cut out) and exams I had at that time. The plot feels like a fever dream and just so uncomfortable. I enjoyed it but it won't stick with me, for I cannot remember something I do not understand well enough. The main contributor to this I felt was the setting and the way it was written, it's set in a New England uni with really dark academic and no pain no art type of vibes and the writing just amplifies this aspect. ☾☽ Samantha Heather Mackey "It didn’t quite pass my suicide visualization test. Could I picture shooting myself here? Definitely I could. Hanging myself? Sure. Some nights, I could even see the noose swinging from the light fixture on the ceiling. But I figured with a few well-placed posters, I might mute the sound of my own future death cry that would sometimes flood my ears upon entering this single room with galley kitchen. Perhaps even write my masterpiece."She has no soul... and even if she does it's so dark I cannot see it. She fit this story like a glove, a mentally unwell writer who scribbles monsters on notes when she's bored and joins cult as the main character??? Sign me the hell up! ☾☽ Writing "Bunny makes a face at us. A funny face. Oh, Bunny, you’re so funny. We say Bunny is so funny and we laugh because it’s true. She is so funny. We laugh and we laugh and we laugh and there is a waiter who comes and asks us why are we laughing, Is everything okay? He asks in this so-concerned voice and that is even funnier so we laugh more. Our laughter makes him uncomfortable because he doesn’t get it, he’s not in on the joke, even though he wants to be, you can tell by his wanting face, which is even funnier to us. We laugh even harder, we grip our barre-toned stomachs so hard we can’t breathe. We almost die right there among our mini foods. Oh my god, oh my god, oh my god, so funny. We probably burn at least a thousand calories laughing because it is so, so funny, this joke we are in on about Bunny being funny. Being a funny Bunny. And now we are hungry again."I promise it's not as annoying as its looking like, the writing is insane and it fits the book perfectly and makes you extremely uncomfortable!☾☽ Conclusion 🆗✔️Plot - I was confused the entire time, it was fast-paced and addictive but won't stick with me for long. ✔️Characters - One of the darkest main characters I've read, I don't like her but she was extremely intriguing. ✔️Writing - Strongest part about this book, enhances the entire experience. 
  
    Rating system
  
❌= I did not like it🆗= It was ok, I have nothing against but it doesn't stand out✔️ = It was great and I wouldn't change anything about it❌🆗 = Somewhere between I did not like it and ok🆗✔️= Somewhere between ok and great~ 17/3/22–11:18Find this review and others on my blog  🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟"THE "MEAN GIRLS" LOOK LIKE KITTENS NEXT TO THESE "BUNNIES". SERIOUSLY, BUNNY!"Reading "Bunny" is like being stoned, you don't know what's real and what's an hallucination. What really happens and what is just the product of drug consumption, because there is a hint these bunnies consume some kind of hallucinogen-on. So, it's up to you as a reader to believe or not the events it tells. It's very uniquely written, the contents so rich and addictive that even if you don't understand exactly what's going on you keep reading.There are lots of references to pop culture XX century stuff, which I found justified. This book is super weird, very fast paced, intriguing and thought provoking. It's not entirely a horror story. It's a mix of horror, thriller, satire, society commentary, magical realism, even fantasy if you think the magic that appears it's actually real.Also, the three parts that make up the book are quite different. Part One carries the most unsettling, horror and eerie elements. Part two departs from that and it shows the main character Samantha trying to find her way back from the cult, trying to get rid of the Bunnies and go back to her old self. Part three is a roller coaster of crazy, we're back to horror suspense mode, with events that don't seem to make sense, but the ending if you want to believe it happens like that makes sense. Wish I was making sense right now. It's hard to talk about "Bunny" without spoilers. Samantha is an outsider in a Arts College in New England for peculiar students. Nobody is totally normal. The Bunnies certainly aren't, but Samantha drags some crazy shit of her own. Before being trapped in "Bunnydom", she has only two friends in campus: Ava, who is not a student and we don't actually know what she does (I doubted actually if she even was real) and Jonah, a weird guy with drug addiction past. Even the teachers and counselors are strange, not in a good way. In a story when Jonah turns out the be the most normal character that's saying a lot about the mix of weird people here. The Bunnies: they call each other bunny, but they have names and nicknames Samantha has given them: Eleanor (The Duchess), Victoria (Vignette), Caroline (Cupcake) and Kira (Creepy Doll). Samantha shares a Workshop with the Bunnies. Only the 5 of them. She gets an invitation to a secret meeting the Bunnies hold regularly and she gets tempted to go. She falls into the rabbit hole and well it all goes from there."Bunny" has influences of many movies, musicians, writers: Alice in wonderland, Frankenstein, the Brontë sisters works, even Kate Bush's song Wuthering Heights plays on and on in a long and nonsensical scene!It's been said is "Mean Girls" with added menace. But for me the movie that shapes "Bunny" is "Heathers": 1989 movie with Winona Ryder playing a weird antisocial character who gets involved with the Heathers: three girls named Heather who compose the clique of popular girls in a high school and they are really awful people. Christian Slater plays a bad boy, an outsider with a taste for killing who gets involved with Winona and shit happens. There's a Christian Slater type of guy in "Bunny": Max, but I can't talk about the guy without spoiling it. While reading "Bunny" I kept replaying "Heathers" in my mind. While "Heathers" takes place inside high school level, in "Bunny" the characters are 25 years old, so the book takes it up a notch on the "Heathers" sarcastic tone and society commentary.I hope I was helpful with my review, since I've seen most people don't know how to put into words their feelings about it but gave it high ratings. For those who did not like it, it just a matter of taste, "Bunny" is one the weirdest books I read and one the most unique too. And one that is not for everyone...  This had so much promise! I was intrigued from page one. Unfortunately, somewhere in the middle of the story, I felt myself growing bored with the story and characters. By all rights, Bunny shouldn't work at all - it combines a bonkers and rather bloody horror story with a razor-sharp satire of elite MFA writing programs, and for the most part succeeds brilliantly. And it's also frequently LOL funny and just downright fun, and races along like a house on fire. There are some terrific lines and set-pieces, and Awad's characters are all bizarre, yet soundly individualistic. There are a few wobbly moments, but if one is just patient (and suspends one's disbelief with a grain of salt...or rather an entire saltlick), it all eventually works its way clear.  I had a great time reading this dark, creepy, absurdly funny satire of MFA programs. Centered around an outsider who finds herself enmeshed in the insular, clique-ish MFA program at an elite New England school. So many tropes of “women’s” writing are paraded out and chopped up with an axe (literally). On the serious side, though, book also looks at ways that the imagination can both save us and isolate us. More profound than it at first appears.   read this in one feverish sitting and ?? what in the world did i just read ?!?? Oh this was fun.  This review is also on medium. Toss me a follow and some claps if you read it there, and like it!https://medium.com/springboard-though...“We never joke about bunnies, Bunny.”Books that defy categorization almost always end up staying with me.They force you to examine them, rather than stuff them in a box and close the lid on them tidily and complete. No book is emblematic of this for me than Bunny. I have never tried to figure out what the hell was going on in a book before. And for some reason that is incredibly enticing to me. It’s a different kind of challenge than most books, and it doesn’t hurt that Bunny is incredibly well written. It was nothing but a joy to puzzle through.Samantha Heather Mackey is a lonely, isolated, insular, imaginative student in a Master-of-Fine Arts program in the fictional college of Warren. Samantha tends to dwell primarily in the written word, viewing others and her surroundings in terms of literary tropes, devices, and structure. The entire story essentially is an uncanny pastiche of her actual college experiences and her final, fictional thesis project.‘…“I’ve never really not written, never not had another world of my own making to escape to, never known how to be in this world without most of my soul dreaming up and living in another. Until I came here. Sometimes it’s good to take a break, the Lion said to me last January, whisking his tea. Focus on other things. Read. Be a guest in other worlds. Perhaps you’re growing. Evolving. Trust, Samantha. Patience.”’Bunny is a very subjective experience. I love that about it. I don’t think there’s any real ‘correct’ answer as to what actually happened and what was pure fiction. But it’s fun to try and make sense of it by writing about it. I don’t want to go over everything at a granular level. Just the story in broad terms. I even ignore a character altogether for the purposes of expediency.Major Spoilers Ahead!“I feel my phone buzz in my pocket. I pull it out, thinking it’s her. She’s saying, Come back. She’s saying she didn’t mean it. Instead, on the screen is a text from a number I vaguely recognize. Words flanked by tulips and open-armed ghosts. U coming 2nite? :D”Things start to really get going when Samantha is invited into her fellow MFA students' private lives even as she drifts from her only friend, Ava: A queer-coded art student dropout with whom Samantha grounded herself in reality. This also placed an inordinate amount of her mental health (and unexamined feelings) onto her sole friend. In a moment of vulnerability and emotional distress at her falling out with Ava, Samantha goes down the rabbit hole. This particular stressor prompts her to cope with what happens next by recontextualizing events and interactions the same way she’s been prone to do since childhood: fictionalizing her experiences.These MFA girls she ends up spending time with, dubbed ‘The Bunnies’, behave as a unit and have some similarities to a cult (which they are frequently likened to). Samantha certainly loses herself in some ways — trading autonomy for a sense of belonging—but it feels like from Samantha’s perspective every group is a cult; at least in so far as cliques in the college go. Which, honestly, feels pretty on point for a lot of the social structures we participate in on a daily basis. Social media. Cult-of-personalities. At a human pack dynamics level, it’s not far off, just a bit hyperbolic in this particular context.The observer effect of Samantha’s gaze transforms those denizens of Warren college that she doesn’t trust into animals, revealing their ‘true’ nature.‘She raises a hand up. Is there an invisible gun in it? No. It’s an empty, open hand. With which she then waves. At me. With something like a smile on her face. Hi, her mouth says. My hand shoots up of its own accord before I can even stop myself. I’m waving and waving and waving. Hi, I’m saying with my mouth, even though no sound comes out. Then the rest of the Bunnies hold up a hand and wave too.”’As the bunnies reveal they have created a ritual, the process of which they call “drafting”, which creates men which are, more-or-less, toys to play with. Drafting seemingly imbues solely the characteristics and aspects of the creators' imagination, revealing these men to be one-dimensional, pop-culture caricatures of the ideal man — which, ironically — renders them unable to perform typical male gender roles altogether. The men speak in regurgitated literary tropes and can’t think for themselves or have sex; can’t even contemplate sex initiated by a woman and don’t initiate it themselves. The mere mention of sex actually makes them break down and cry and visibly shake in a corner.Though completely unsatisfying, the bunnies continue to create them, believing that they need to simply try harder; again and again, continuing and trusting in what they refer to as ‘the work’.Eventually, something non-derivative and brilliant will come of it. They have no doubt. Won’t even tolerate doubt, in fact.This is the literalization of the — or a — writing process. It brings to mind the famous quote by Hemmingway: “There is nothing to writing. All you do is sit down at a typewriter and bleed” Only in this process, the male bunnies become a kind of sustenance for them all, too, transcending even a literal interpretation of the process being a blood sacrifice in order to write well.Likely, Samantha lets herself be subsumed by the group in a kind of madness of crowds mentality and begins to participate in the writing process with her colleagues. Writing fiction and collaborating while drinking. Her hangover is (again) made literal when she wakes up feeling horrible after experiencing the horrific: a male bunny having exploded when she attempted to engage him in conversation. The character as written did not hold up under scrutiny.Importantly, Samantha has not actually ‘drafted’ herself, as yet. But she begins spending all her time with the group and becomes a bunny herself. She changes everything about herself to conform to the stereotypical feminine archetype she had so loathed about the bunnies before she knew them.Then, out of nowhere, Ava returns and rescues Samantha from the perceived clutches of the nefarious cult. Suspicious, considering Ava has said she was running away with a man, which caused Samantha to run away to find solace with the bunnies in the first place. At the time, from Samantha’s perspective, Ava seemed not to care about Samantha at all; yet from Ava’s, she now tells Samantha that she had run away from her “no reason at all”. Ava claims she was so worried about Samantha after that evening that those plans to leave were scrapped. She has been looking everywhere for Samantha for days and days and days, and finally found her now roaming about with the bunnies.But… Ava is gone. It’s sad but true. If not in this moment, certainly shortly after it, when the bunnies find them both in a diner and the dutchess, the leader of the bunnies, speaks to Ava alone, and Ava walks away from Samantha and out of her life, for good.But before Samantha resigns herself to the bunnies yet again, on the cusp of walking into the ritual space, the rich suburban house of the bunnies, an omen appears to her in the form of a stag.“I look at all of my dreams and nightmares distilled into one man-shaped shape. All the love and hate I have in my heart plus one fucking bunny.”When it comes time for Samantha to do the drafting ritual in the presence (and judgment) of the bunnies, she finds herself unable to engage in the process, which is characterized by the bunnies expressing their disappointment in a weird, sexual performance vernacular, suggesting that this process of writing is conflated by Samantha.“You want to fuck, not be fucked,” Victoria says. “Samantha,” Eleanor intones, “is this making sense?” I stare at them all through Kira’s pink heart-shaped glasses. This is how she must see the world all the time. I look at their dark pink faces, so suddenly grave. I should call the police. I should run to Mexico. “Totally.”After all, bunnies fuck, right? Why can’t Samantha just ‘get it up’ and perform her gender role as the oversexualized, feminine bunny unit often does and, in turn, expects?Perhaps ‘the ritual’ is heavily influenced by the men the girls would hook up with or date on campus. The inputs of time and effort the girls fed into them would reveal that they aren’t satisfying subjects/objects that meet the bunnies’ needs and are discarded. They then show up in their writing. Or perhaps it’s entirely fictional characters being written, consumed, discarded. Because the experience is such a blur it’s hard to say. I think, in the end, it’s probably a mix of both. Derivative men both on and off the page — and Samantha being stymied in terms of having no male counterpart as well as not being able to write.As a result of the bunnies' thinly-veiled condescension and judgment, Samantha feels isolated from the group once again and returns to her home. Thrusting herself wholesale into her thesis project.“I miss you, Bunny. This summer was so hard without you. I barely wrote a word, I was so, so sad. Let’s never ever part again, please?” Ava laughs out loud at this. Actually laughs. Throws her feathery head back. Doesn’t bother to cover her mouth with her gloved hand. It’s a delicious, raucous sound. Ringing in the air like the evening’s missing music.”What Samantha discovers at home away from the bunnies can safely be assumed to be the constructs of her thesis: Ava returns again — but is actually a swan; and a boy she knows she has created in her ‘failed’ attempt at drafting, the stag — who is actually the embodiment of the masculine characteristics she needs to defend herself, cultivate autonomy, and remove the emotional threat of the bunnies. These two creatures, the swan and the stag are in love. And, bitingly, as Ava puts it: because she’s a grown woman and not a child, they are, of course, fucking.Both characters are playing out a fantasy of Samantha’s. She is able to have the kind of relationship she wanted to have with Ava but hadn’t realized until too late, and simultaneously, also hurt the bunnies. There is room for the stag to be the guy Ava ran away with and they just stayed behind. But I think it is far more likely Ava has been out of the picture and the stag is Samantha. Both often know what Samantha is thinking and engage in a dialogue with her when she’s not actually spoken aloud. And when Samantha is doing something, either may mirror what she’s doing. She seems to be in a dissociative state and this is where the thesis begins in earnest.“Because you simply can’t sit back and allow your best friend to date an animal man of your own creation and say nothing. You can’t. And say nothing? That would be just wrong, on so many levels.”After a fight with Ava, Samantha runs away again but intuitively believes something is wrong at home and rushes back. The stag is clutching a dead Ava, revealed to be a swan, an ax buried in her back. Samantha immediately blames the stag (herself) for this but then transfers that anger onto one of the bunnies because, during the drafting process previously, one of the bunnies quoted Kafka: “A book must be the axe for the frozen sea inside of us.”In a final confrontation, the stag prowls to the bunnies with Samantha in tow, seemingly completely helpless to do anything but follow. But when talking to the bunnies she is completely powerless to take action herself, even though it is clear they did it.But her creation is not powerless.When the stag makes his presence known, the girls push and pull at the stag, each trying to selfishly be the one to possess him for themselves. Though the stag seems amused but otherwise completely indifferent and unaffected, he calls on Samantha to use an ax and split open his human form. A majestic stag breaks out from the shell and bristles — shattering the girls and throwing them to the ground; finally achieving an act of domination for Samantha.Afterwhich, at graduation, the bunnies sit apart from Samantha with her professor and award her grudging respect. They appear beaten, bruised and broken both from the ‘physical confrontation’ at the house, where they were tossed to the ground, but also appear to have permanent injuries from self-harm. The professor reflects on the damage this year, likening it to a kind of war that they’ve all gotten through. Soothing platitudes are exchanged. And the college experience comes to an end. And this is to say nothing of a few subplots and two characters altogether which further enrich the story.Bunny is anything but a typical reading experience. It is a brilliant amalgamation and study of how cultural consciousness views the college experience, gender roles, sexual coming-of-age, the horror of losing agency and autonomy, and just generally being the kid that is left of center in a heavily tribalistic, non-sensical world.“Why do you lie so much? And about the weirdest little things?”, my mother always asked me. “I don’t know”, I always said. But I did know. It was very simple. Because it was a better story.”  ***Second read (all spoilers, this is my interpretation of what actually happened in the book): It’s all a metaphor for writing, the creative process, and imagination.Eleanor’s clique is smart but they lack the imagination required to create lasting stories (symbolized by hybrids) that can withstand interrogation. Samantha does so without even trying. Caroline, Kira, Victoria, and Eleanor can transform bunnies (specifically that animal and no other) into human-ish men, called hybrids. Their abilities are limited because they do not possess much depth of imagination. The hybrids are imperfect and do not have much free will. The hybrids are mostly shallow copies of characters from the books the girls have read. Because of their sheltered upbringings, the girls have lived vicariously through literature. The metaphorical connection is that most of the cliques' stories lack depth and are derivative, even though they are written beautifully and are aesthetically pleasing.Along comes Samantha. Samantha lived a troubled early life, experiencing poverty and the death of her mother, and was forced to develop her imagination much further than her classmates. Samantha is not conscious of her creative powers. That Frankenstein-esque creative "workshop" the other girls do? Samantha has done it before, unconsciously--accidentally. While sitting by a lake, after being rejected by her professor, she sees a swan. Fixating on her loneliness and insecurity, she transforms the swan into the epitome of strength, confidence, and “fuck it” mentality: Ava. Ava is, like the other girls’ hybrids, actually a creation of Samantha’s imagination, transformed into a human body. The metaphorical connection: Samantha is a practiced, talented, imaginative writer. Her stories take on a life of their own, and she is capable of creating something that can withstand questioning and analysis. She is capable of creative complexity in a way her peers are not.When Eleanor/the Duchess meets Ava, she asks her “What pets did you have growing up?” This causes Ava to disappear very quickly—because Ava is not a real person with a true childhood. Eleanor is smart, but not imaginative. She recognizes Ava as a hybrid immediately, and asks her a question to prove that she is a hybrid. That same day, Eleanor asks Samantha to join her in their writing workshop, because she knows that Samantha is capable of creativity in a way she is not. Instead of doing what the clique asks, Samantha accidentally transforms a stag in the yard into a hybrid. The girls meet the hybrid, and immediately all call him "ours." This comments on plagiarism. Unimaginative peers taking credit for something that is not theirs.The Stag loves to fuck with people, just like Samantha's other hybrid, just like Samantha's stories. Samantha uses a lot of shock value, and "meanness," as her peers would say. The Stag hybrid is even more complex and nuanced than Ava, and is also more vindictive. It actively seeks out the clique, and convinces them to sabotage their stories. The metaphorical connection: The girls' attempt to plagiarize from Samantha's work backfires, as their attempt to recreate her work is shallow.I believe that the girls (Eleanor/Kira/Victoria/Caroline) can only make bunnies into bodies because the girls' creativity relies on cuteness. They are attracted to, and believe in, only sunshine and aesthetics in their art. This is a metaphor for the shallow nature of their writing, the cutesy, gimmicky ways they perform and create. Samantha, on the other hand, is attracted to confidence, darkness, and power, and draws inspiration from animals that represent these aspects of herself.Again, it’s all a metaphor for writing. The way writers draw inspiration, the way their life informs their art. The way writing can take on a living presence, can effect writers physically and mentally. And of course, plagiarism, imposter’s syndrome, and the shallow world of MFA programs that include the technically skilled but imaginatively inept. ***First read:I’m giving this 5 stars and adding it to my “favorites” shelf because I absolutely adore the overstuffed, ultra feminine, sickly sweet, highly disorienting world that Awad created here. I fell down the rabbit hole of Bunny’s cotton candy nightmare. I plan to reread this, soon, maybe immediately, because I want to live in Awad’s hyper sensory language. However, this book is not perfect. I found myself rooting against the protagonist, and for the toxic bubbly sweetness of the Bunnies to prevail. Compared to the highly described physicality and dress of each person she encounters, we get very few details about the narrator’s style or appearance, and only glimpses into her past. In this way, the narrator is the least interesting character—but that can’t be, because without her, the story would not exist at all, since she made up most of it in her head. It’s all very intoxicating really, and I think I’m going to pick it up right now and start that reread. This book begs: Eat me! Drink me! Smell me! Touch me! Taste me! And I will, over and over again  hmmm Bunny, ma cazzo, dove sei?!Ero disperso nei meandri labirintici ed onirici di questo romanzo, quando mi accorgo di essere rimasto sempre fermo nel mio posto. Non so... mi era parso di girovagare in antri oscuri e melmosi della mente umana e di carpirne dei significati così profondi, che poi, perchè mai uno non ne dovrebbe ricercare sempre di significati così intimi, intensi ed appassionati, soprattutto appassionanti?Perchè alla fine la vita ci riserva molte sorprese o almeno, ce ne potrebbero essere di infinite possibilità che ci si parano davanti in ogni attimo della nostra corta esistenza, per la vita dell'universo, ma molto lunga se pensiamo alla vita media di un insetto o di un uccellino o di un coniglio? comunque, dicevo: poi sta a noi prendere una direzione piuttosto che un'altra o un'altra o un'altra ancora e via discorrendo all'infinito. E così arriviamo al dilemma sulla vita, sull'universo e tutto quanto, che non è come nella Guida Galattica per Autostoppisti, ma non ci andiamo poi così tanto lontano e cioè che ognuno di noi fa quello che deve fare e... bah forse mi sono un po' perso, un po' come mi ero perso all'inizio di questo commento nei meandri e bla bla bla. Così incontro Cthulhu, che dalla ancestrale R'lyeh blatera qualcosa, ma non si capisce nulla, quelle miriadi di proboscidi gli fanno biascicare delle frasi incomprensibili ed oscure. Allora mi giro e parto per nuove avventure, nuovi e reconditi luoghi della mente che...Bunny ci dobbiamo incontrare assolutamente, cazzo!!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KB7yX...  She is cherry blossoms falling. She is serious moonlight. She is shivering green leaves.This book is so.. different and I think it will really hit people differently depending on who they are, their life experiences, what they’re looking for between it’s pages, and where they are in life when they read it. While this book didn’t resonate with me (at this moment) the way I’ve seen it resonate with others, I still think it’s absolutely brilliant. Awad’s prose are so lovely and the way she writes loneliness, like a physical weight, and the heartache of wanting to belong, really made my soul ache and made me think of a younger version of myself, yearning for friendships I didn’t yet have. There were parts when I had to tell myself to stop annotating because I could have annotated the entire page, it was written so beautifully. We’ve all been in Samantha’s shoes, so desperately wanting to belong to something, anything, to feel welcomed and accepted, so much so that we are willing to give up parts of ourselves. Awad’s took those feelings, she manifested them and spun them into a story of cultish mean girls, exploding bunnies, a bone-deep loneliness, and whimsical nights of friendship. Do I think everyone will love this book? No. Do I recommend it? 100% and highly. I think this is a book I will revisit many times, one in which my feelings for it will always be shifting.  I feel like a bit of a terrible person giving this 5* as it's an uncomfortable read in many ways. I started off criticising it for its use of some offensive words (I cringed at the word retarded, the flippant mention of schizophrenia, the continued use of the word insane). But this book relentlessly mocks itself, contains so many layers, ridicules elitist academia, the arts and the creative writing programmes that birthed it (I'm an MA CW graduate myself and...ouch), ultimately it drew me right in. To give you an idea, Bunny is like the teen movies Mean Girls, Heathers and The Craft mixed in with Alice in Wonderland, Frankenstein and The Secret History. With extra added rainbow sprinkles, pastel frosting and blood. And still it holds its own. It's compelling, riveting, so sardonic and just asking for a strong reaction. I for sure won't forget this book in a hurry. I both love and hate it and just like the protagonist, I found myself both repelled by and equally beguiled by the bunny girls, as well as Samantha herself; her loneliness and her judgemental, sad, angry imagination. I couldn't stop myself getting sucked into the whole experience.  Two stars. One star because it was mostly boring (due to not knowing what was going on), the second star because the author did write a lot of creative sentences, at least reading those were entertaining. But I really had no idea what I was reading. And someone had said the ending was mind blowing, so I decided to continue rather than DNF, and it was the same as the rest of the book, I had no idea what I was reading. I was intrigued by all reviews stating how weird it was, and it was definitely weird. I have mixed feelings about whether or not I got something out of this. There is a part of me that feels reading this book was a unique experience. However I probably could have DNF'd this and not missed out on anything.  So weird, but in the best way possible!The claustrophobic, suffocating atmosphere of this book was truly masterful. And this writing. For the entire time I just thought - this is how I want to be able to write. Samantha was a very observant and yet unreliable narrator in this story and I felt like I was getting lost and losing touch with reality alongside her. Also, this book respects the reader and doesn't hand anything to you, letting you figure things out on your own. I rarely come across that being so well done as here.  This strange piece of literary horror is a creative writing fever dream ... literally! We've got sacrificial cults, exploding heads, and fluffy little bunnies absolutely everywhere. I listened to the audiobook narrated by Sophie Amoss and I loved the performance. This MeanGirls-esque group of university students all had bright, shiny voices resembling Marilyn Monroe which made it feel even more drug induced considering their culty behavior. So freakin' weird but I didn't dislike it.  This was definitely a wild ride... but not the ride I particularly wanted. I enjoyed parts of it and I like the idea of the story, but it didn't completely work for me.Also I find that the ending is.... unsatisfying.  this was a fever dream, i don’t think i understood a single thing but i enjoyed it? i think? I really enjoyed this book! It was strange and inventive and had fun with genres and language. I completely get why a lot of people didn’t like it, or wanted to not feel disoriented for the entirety of the book. I think that Samantha telling us early on that she lied a lot as a child and tells stories to escape to unending dullness of how she perceives reality is a pretty solid clue though. If someone tells you who they are, believe them! Because she is going to take us down some pretty insane paths. I thought this book was good satire, and I liked what was done with feminism and the idea of individuality and the whole Body thing, it was so interesting! I wanted to talk about so many of the lines as I was going through. With that being said, I feel like it’s an extremely hard book to review. So I just threw a bunch of thoughts I had while reading into a pile, and that is my non-review.I liked the idea of the Bunnies and the creepiness of their hive mind, and their workshops. The boys! My lord. And I definitely felt there was a nod to Valley of the Dolls, with the little pills and the haze and the styling. My lord. I also like how Samantha finally got agency in multiple forms, as the Bunnies loved to talk about so much. This book is pretty chaotic and there is a lot happening, to me it worked well because it stuck to certain themes. I was just along for the ride, with no expectations of it being reality or a fever dream or magical realism. It doesn’t really matter, ultimately. Samantha feels painfully alone and doesn’t truly feel in control of anything, and weirdly encountering a Bunny cult in her creative writing workshop helps her to find her way. Random opinions:-omg the Drafts. I loved that. And the names, like Odysseus and Beowulf. Lol -the fact that the axe murder element wasn’t even one of the most unsettling things about this book cracks me up -There were a lot of things that really do happen in creative writing workshops, but KareKare was a real trip. She was the only character I hated! (Of course this whole book was kind of a trip, and a lot of people were drinking a lot and taking pills). -I loved Ava and her kimonos and the dancing -I loved the complimenting people for things that don’t exist. Like telling a person you love their earrings when they aren’t wearing any -Jonah was this book’s cinnamon roll, and really the only sane anchor in the story. I liked him! -a quibble: why was “unfazed” written as unphased the whole book? It was used fairly often, and it’s weird that no one edited it Okay, Bunny. I should like to tell you about Bunny, Bunny. It'll wrap you up in it's warm, safe arms and tell you everything you wish you had going on in your life and it'll be precious, Bunny. Really.Just... wow. From the first page to the end, it was a wild trip, with neck-cutting razor prose, complete with exploding heads.I LOVE this novel. It's a true horror in all senses of the word. It chilled me to the bone as if Barbie was real and Clueless was truly evil. And how it began? I swore I was about to read a novelization of that classic movie, Heathers. And I wasn't far wrong. Was I, Bunny?Muahahahahaha what delicious, screwed-in-the-head, bizarro fun. I LOVED the originality.And just so you know, if you want to know what creative writing workshops are like.... well, the language has it's legs wide open, Bunny. I reveled in all of it.  can i explain to you why this is a five stars? no this was so chaotic and honestly had no idea what was going on at the time for any of it - but it had me hooked i literally could not put it down , the ending?! i literally had to reread the last thirty pages because i could not process anythingi was so lost yet intrigued yet so confused yet happy with it? the cult element of it was so goddamn interesting - like sorry? four high school girls killing bunnies with axes, yes please. what in the creepy disturbing- but i absolutely adored it and honestly have no words because what the hell have i just read. i’ve been sat here for the past twenty minutes trying to process but i cant , i just cant think. my brain has worked harder than it ever has before trying to understand.5⭐️“Can I take your coat?” Cupcake offers. I turn to her. She’s looking at me so hopefully. So willing to take a coat I’m not wearing, I almost want to give her my skin.”  “Why do you lie so much? And about the weirdest little things?", my mother always asked me. "I don’t know", I always said. But I did know. It was very simple. Because it was a better story.” A hilarious satire of elite academic programs mixed with a similarly bizarre horror story. "Kill your darlings," as seasoned authors frequently advise, takes on a whole new meaning as we follow our protagonist, Samantha, down the demented and disorientating rabbit hole of cliques and popularity at her prestigious university. Welcomed into the arms of the Bunnies, the luxurious cult–I mean, clique of popular girls who had previously alienated and quietly despised her, Sam grapples with the pains of writer’s block, deteriorating mental health, and woes of adolescence. As her social life and sanity spiral out of control, Sam just might find the cure for her troubles in the fluffy, suffocating embrace of the bunnies. What makes the novel so unique is that the narrative is told from the mind of a schizophrenic woman whose grasp of reality is extremely feeble, and often simply non-existent. Despite this, she triumphs, and that’s the other and most moving element to the novel - after a long, desperate period of being unable to write, as she struggles with total disassociation and psychosis, Samantha writes. She writes of her beloved friend Ava, and also of the Bunnies, her cohort who are perfectly real but have consciously excluded her. She authors the very novel we’re reading. Bunny is her thesis, the work she’s been chasing after so many trials and tribulations. Whether the Bunnies “workshops” ever really happened or were psychotic imaginings Samantha invented out of her vast loneliness is uncertain. I personally believe that all of the supernatural happenings were a combination of hallucination and Samantha’s imagination as an artist/writer. Bunny is such a delicious triumph and should not be overlooked! 🐰👯‍♀️ Mona Awad herself comes from a background of privilege and private schools/ nepo unis. I always find it ironic to see classism pervade in every niche corner - but the ones talking about it always seem to be the ones who benefit from it - it’s like a weird aesthetic for them - this idea that they are all struggling van goghs worthy of our communal pity &amp; understanding. That their descriptions of hand motions being “gynaecological” are artistic expressions, quirky - something new. I will never understand the weird and strange world of elitism around American schooling, but what’s even worse is books by authors from montreal. Canadians just know, like you just know what type of writing is to expected from people from montreal. This book was lame &amp; lacked any focus. It’s like she forgot what she was even saying midway. I can’t even recall half the characters, the main mc was clearly a self insert - a really aggravatingly annoying one who should’ve just taken her zoloft &amp; wrote her thesis or whatever man i give up on this review here’s some random letters akkaksksosooskdjd vnfkdlsls. thank you&lt;3  So, I read something that called this a combination of Heathers and The Craft. It is. It really is.It's also weird. This is, quite honestly, one of the strangest books I've ever read. I don't do drugs, but I imagine if I ever took some bad LSD, while watching Alice in Wonderland, I might find myself stuck in this book, screaming to get out. I spent a good part of the book waiting for this all to be a dream.It wasn't.I finished this last week. I still don't know if I liked it.I do know that it's one of the most unique things I've ever read. Read it when you're in that kind of slanted mood where you're kind of in a temper, need an escape, and are willing to accept that anything is possible, but you still kind of want a world where unicorns and bubble gum colored bunnies exist. They might eat you, but they exist.  myspace-dated, thinly characterized, and INSANELY immature in style. spare edits???? soooo what the fuck did i just read
  
  wtf did i just read  This was really fucking weird. But in a good way? I think? This was definitely not what I was expecting - but that’s probably my fault for not doing adequate research. I only discovered this book because after enjoying such novels as ‘If We Were Villains’, ’The Likeness’ and ‘The Secret History’ (which I’m actually just re-reading), I wanted more of that ‘Dark Academia’ type of book, and Bunny kept cropping up on lists... it is certainly not like the others, but very enjoyable in its own way. A way that made me say “Wait, WTF?” several times. Just look at the weird mish-mash of genres I’ve had to file it under: horror and magical realism, as well as humour/satire etc.   Reading vlog: Can We Trust Books and Lala? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ItBfp...3.5 stars? This is a weird one. It's well-written, often clever, and kind of a take-down of the kind of artsy, pseudo-intellectualism you can find in MFA programs, and an ode to the writing process. But did I enjoy it? Eh....sometimes? I have really mixed feelings on Bunny and I'm not surprised it tends to be a polarizing one. It's strange, violent, and at times disorienting. But on purpose. I don't love the choice to make the hyper-feminine creepy and then juxtapose it with characters who eschew the feminine in a sort of goth/hipster way. For a book that is so nuanced in other ways, that element seemed to lack self-awareness.  wtf did i read???? this book was so bizarre and unique. it left me hella confused too. the whole time i was thinking am i just too dumb to understand this, turns out kinda but i got most of it (yay). really liked the writing tho. it was unusual and made me anxious like how your chest tightens sometimes reading idk how else to explain it. i can totally understand why someone would love it or hate it or even find it boring. although, i didn’t “love” it, it was just really strange like something i’ve never read before. also, i’d genuinely like to know what part of this was horror lol.  "Whenever I read one of Victoria's vignettes, I always feel so dumb because I can hardly understand them at all and then I blame myself. I think 'Kira this must be just too brilliant for you to grasp. Surely you must have missed something.' Even though there's always been this small voice inside of me that says 'Um, what the fuck is this please? This makes no sense."And with that, Mona Awad wrote my entire review for this book for me.  Definitely the weirdest book I’ve ever read! So weird!I’m happy I read it. I was so curious about this for a very long time. It was so much spooky creepy fun! So much fun!🍾And ALL the comp titles that any other readers wrote in their reviews are totally 100% accurate! So accurate! So so accurate!And all the WTFs too!!! 😃🧟🌷👻I love You Bunny ✨🧁 I love You more 🐰 🪓🪓🪓  H- hey... uh... MFA students? Are you OK?(4 stars--I really liked it. This book defies expectations and a review. It's totally off-the-wall bonkers. Part literary fiction, part horror, part weird fiction--be warned if you're squeamish.) This was even better after the 2nd read. I read 'Bunny' as part of a video project on YouTube, check it out: https://youtu.be/va0g4XjGvR4 Read Bunny!I randomly browsed through Kindle Unlimited at around 9pm, fully expecting I will only read the first few chapters so I have something to look forward to tomorrow. Boy did I finish it in one sitting!At some points in time while reading this, I got worried I will have nightmares about this. It was so vividly brilliant and realistically described, at the same time it was also the darkest, strangest, most unrealistic, fictional tale written in the form of a narration by Samantha Heather Mackey, the main character of the book.I read it without knowing the plot and the premise, and that made my journey a lot better as I could just make up theories in my mind about what was happening - without confirmation bias from what I actually found in the internet right after reading this. There’s even conspiracies on Reddit! If you like mind bending movies and books, this book is for you.  What the fuck did I just read? (In a good way)FULL REVIEW @dysreads ON IG! (edit: 4.5 rounded up i cant stop thinking abt it) awad’s writing is absolutely phenomenal and it made me so anxious i had to look away to breathe at timesyou either love or hate this one, personally, i keep looking at my 4 star teetering towards a 5  Books about writers and writing are always intriguing. For anyone who’s had to sit through the excruciating pain of a writing workshop, similar to being stretched across a medieval torture table, there will be so many moments in here that spark full-on glee. And while Awad is being purposefully flippant and wildly over-the-top satirical, it is at the same time a perfectly realistic representation of what goes on in the much-lauded circles of writing workshops everywhere.And that is just barely the top layer of this multi-color, sparkle-sprinkle-laden mini cake. What begins as a story of an outsider being invited in turns into something, well, different.First, it is just such a joy to read Bunny as Awad offers effortlessly cool, wonderfully evocative sentence after sentence, fully immersing the reader in who Samantha is as a character without ever needing to resort to easier means of description. You see her through the way she describes the world around her—and the Bunnies. Yes, let’s get to those Bunnies. I actually love the description of this book as Heathers meets The Vegetarian—it perfectly encapsulates the meta-strangeness of a clique of girls and specific societal structure such as Veronica deals with wrapped around the magical realism, the weirdness that’s so weird you just have to accept it of Han Kang’s novel.The first part of the book will drag you in, relentlessly making you hate the Bunnies and obsessively need to know more about them at the same time. It makes fun of the MFA program and the arts school as only someone with insider knowledge could. It will go straight to your soul with all the references and stereotypes and wonderful, perfect dialogue. Then comes the shift, and the book becomes about something bigger altogether. It becomes interested in the idea of creation—can ideas be made real? Who is responsible for them? What effect do they have on the world? Awad isn’t afraid to break away from traditional narrative forms and the book becomes its own beast, entirely different from anything that I’ve ever read. What comes out of this second half still ties directly into writing and the creative process, and I found myself thinking about control and how as writers, we want to control every aspect of the narrative, everything that the readers see and how they’ll interpret it too. When you let go of that instinct to grip your work, that need to make sure everyone “gets” it, what sort of ideas can bloom from your unconscious?There’s so much more to unpack with Bunny. I’m already planning to read it again, but this time I want to listen to it on audiobook. It really is the type of book that can only benefit from multiple readings.I can’t wait for more from Awad, and I’m looking forward to reading her first book too!My thanks to Viking for my copy of this one to read and review.  Confession: I am never not thinking about Bunny by Mona Awad.(second read: 7 august 2022–28 december 2022): *sighs in absolute utter obsession* a 5-star banger being even better on a reread? exactly. (first read: 16 march 2022–16 march 2022): I honestly don’t want to say anything about this book because I don’t want to take a single shred of magic away from the viscerally intense journey Awad has in store for you, other than share that ever since I inhaled this audiobook two weeks ago, I have not stopped thinking about it for many a moment since. It has seeped into the marrow of my bones and etched itself into the sinew of my very being. The way Awad writes is singularly electrifying and thrilling to the core. Her text feels alive in a way that it feels like the story can come through the pages to nip at your fingertips like a teething puppy looking to soothe its itching gums. It’s sinister and cute and vicious and cuddly and continually uncovering layer upon layer of deep meaning while hypnotically enchanting you with its incandescent prose.In my humble opinion, a cannot-miss must read.Come as no surprise, Bunny by Mona Awad has officially joined The Memory Police by Yoko Ogawa, My Year of Rest and Relaxation by Ottessa Moshfegh, Gone Girl by Gillian Flynn, Yolk by Mary HK Choi, Sorrow and Bliss by Meg Mason, Beautiful World, Where Are You? by Sally Rooney, Luster by Raven Leilani, Ghost Forest by Pik-Shuen Fung, and The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo by Taylor Jenkins Reid as one of my top 10 sad girl vibes books of all time. (Bunny is probably the most horror-leaning of the bunch, even moreso than Gone Girl (which I’d class moreso as a thriller) so make sure to look up content warnings on all of these before checking them out!)I am ravenous for more Mona Awad works and am super stoked to devour All’s Well for Chloe Bunny aka @bookswithchloe’s Patreon book club pick for April 2022 — who I must also thank for recommending Bunny so strongly and convincingly to get me to start reading it at 2am on a Wednesday night. It was a resplendent experience. Go check out Chloe’s Bunny review that convinced me to pick up this masterpiece and her other 🔥 book recs on her youtube page: https://www.youtube.com/bookswithchloe :))  co to za sezon riverdale  dnf @30% I really tried to get into this one, normally I dnf around page 50 when I'm not feeling a book,  I pushed through and read until page 92  but at that point, I had to give up.The premise... I'm not even really sure what's supposed to be happening tbh. Samantha is trying to make her way through what's allegedly the world's most prestigious MFA program. There's this group of girls who call each other "Bunny" all the time, and I guess they're sort of supposed to be like... the equivalent of the popular girls? They suddenly decide to take Samantha under their wing and things get very weird very fast. Now, I've heard people going around calling this "The New Mean Girls" or "The New Heathers," and as someone who is both a die-hard Mean Girls and a die-hard Heathers fan, I am just going to stop you right there. No. This- don't compare this to my precious babies. I was first off-put by this book because of the writing style. The sentences at the beginning were really short and choppy, which I found extremely obnoxious (commas are a thing, Mona Awad). And aside from that I just found the whole thing sort of confusing.I get that we are dealing with an unreliable narrator here. This is technically classified as horror, but I didn't really find any of it- scary? Just comically ridiculous. The point where I stopped was  The prom scene with Rob Valencia- where he screams at Samantha and then his head explodes.  I think it was supposed to be scary, but I just found it so awkward and ridiculous that I literally laughed out loud. Maybe I would have liked this more if I was an MFA student? It felt like a lot of it pointed to things you might only understand if you'd been in a program like that. If I'm being 100% honest, I think one of the other reasons I felt so put off by this is because it just seemed way  too personal. I felt like I was reading one of Mona Awad's personal therapy fantasies or something and it was- awkward. Overall, not for me, but no shade on you if you liked this, maybe I'm just not the right audience. 🤷  El libro se describe como "Heathers", "The Craft" y "Mean Girls" combinada con "Frankenstein", lo cual sonaba demasiado genial como para dejarlo pasar. Tristemente se convirtió en la primera decepción del año.He visto las reseñas de personas —con quienes por lo general concuerdo— que amaron el sinsentido de esta historia y no puedo evitar pensar que quizá mi error fue escucharla en audiolibro. La voz de la narradora no me atrapó, al contrario, hizo que la protagonista me cayera pésimo.La historia sigue a Samantha, quien cursa un posgrado en escritura creativa en una prestigiosa universidad. Sin embargo, a diferencia de sus compañeras, Samantha no es rica, ultra femenina, ni hace lo mas mínimo por intentar integrarse. Lo inevitable ocurre y las chicas populares (que llevan meses de ignorarla) la invitan a ser parte de su grupo. Samantha acepta y entonces la locura se desata. Estas chicas son más bien un culto y, como no quiero hacer spoilers, solo diré que los conejos son parte central de su extraño ritual.Aunque aprecio mucho la sátira y el humor negro que la autora utiliza para hablar de los alumnos de posgrado, sus egos inflados, la jerga académica (que puede llegar a ser tan pedante) y en general sobre los clichés de la comunidad literaria, siento que la historia carece de sentido. Apuesta por lo absurdo y grotesco, que no necesariamente es malo, pero deja muchos cabos sueltos y la verdad, me pareció desesperante.Quizá no estaba en el mejor momento mental/emocional para leerlo. Este es uno de esos libros que te hace sentir que si no te gustó es porque seguro no lo entendiste y eso hace que me caiga todavía más mal. Le di dos estrellas porque no puedo negar que es un libro original y que la autora logró que me sintiera dentro de una pesadilla de la cual ya solo quería despertar.  I have a pretty clear understanding what the book was going for but I didn’t find the execution nor the experience enjoyable. Though I found the themes and the metaphors to be intriguing, the way in which they were displayed on page wasn’t the most engaging for me personally. A lot of people call this book confusing but I personally didn't get that vibe. I think once it is understood that Sam is an unreliable narrator, things begin to fall into place pretty quickly, especially once we begin to understand the escapades of the bunnies. I enjoyed that the book commented on womanhood, prestige, privilege and the loneliness that may come with these concepts but I didn't enjoy the way that the book went about it. Though there were so many moments that should have been thrilling and left me on the edge of my seat, I ultimately found myself not caring. This could be due to the fact that I am HUGE character-driven reader and many of the characters were hard to connect with by the design of the story. Sam is untrustworthy and a bit withdrawn from the reader because of this and all of the bunnies are two-dimensional due to Sam's view of them and their cult-like behavior. This doesn't really leave a character for me to connect or at the least empathize with, much less root for. That left me without a foundation that would allow the crazy twists and turns to have an emotional impact on me. However, I did appreciate the last lines of the book and Jonah's role in completing Sam's narrative. It did feel as though everything came full circle which I feel is important in a book like this, wherein it can read as a fever dream of sorts.  When I saw reviews coming in from Bookstagrammers whose opinions I highly respect, I just KNEW I HAD to get this book. Did I see a reference to Heathers?! Well, pour me a cup of drain cleaner and lets yell CORN NUTS together! When I got to Part Two, I am practically huddled in a corner with the letters W-T-F hanging above me in cartoon form while my eyes bug out. I have NO IDEA WHAT IS HAPPENING. First we get US movie, where bunnies play a bit part and now THIS. Y'all, I'm done. I can't do bunny anything anymore. Nope.So what's my damage? I think I could go forever without ever seeing or using the word "bunny" again. Or Samantha - who uses a person's name THAT OFTEN in conversation? Samantha... Samantha? Samantha! SAMANTHA! BUNNY BUNNY BUNNY BUNNY BUNNY! Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh! And look, I had just watched Tusk before I read this. And while they're WILDLY different stories, I think I capped my *this is unusual, uncomfortable and just plain weird* arsenal. Am I mad I read this? I don't *think* so. Would I recommend it? Probably not. HOWEVER, this book seems to be very divisive and I'm on Team NOPE. I still have no clue what I actually read, what this is actually about or why I'm probably going to watch the adaptation to screen... but I think it'll resonate better (for me) through that medium than what my brain was trying to process with this one.  i mean… it’s definitely a book! and after reading this i’m fairly certain that this is the only thing i definitively know. bunny is like the yassified version of the secret history. (is it ambitious to say this is a direct parody of the secret history? the controlling &amp; competitive friend group, small &amp; prestigious college courses, weird seances… i mean it’s literally called bunny.)this novel is absolutely hypnotizing. i could not put it down. it’s surreal, it’s phantasmagoric, it’s… well…just… WEIRD. it’s a brave exploration of the imagination, obsessive friendships, and female desire. although important themes are visible, i love how it presented in a way that doesn’t take itself too seriously. from the booktok reviews i’ve seen, everyone seems to get hung up on the ending — complaining that it doesn’t make sense. like… it’s a book about exploding animorphs what do you think SHOULD happen???  This book was really strange and not at all what I expected, but I think I liked it.I can’t even tell if it was a real horror novel, or some sort of hallucination? No idea, but either way it was so disconcerting and gruesome. Very culty, cliquey and gave me dark academia vibes in some parts. I admit I was a bit lost in several points, it’s not that the plot is hard to follow it’s just I couldn’t figure out what I was supposed to be taking from it. It was equal parts creepy and elusive, so sinister and unsettling, but sugar coated with tiny cupcakes.The writing was really good, it was snappy and clever and full of quippy metaphors that I really enjoyed. Definitely an author I’d love to read more of in the future. I’m still processing this book and it’ll be one I think about for a while.Definitely warrants a reread at some point so I can read it with a fresh perspective.  am not feeling generous abt this one. there's a quality to mona awad's writing, just So Embedded in everything from the actual granular detail of her sentences to the general structure of her narrative, her protagonists, their perceptions and relationships, that makes me feel like i am in high school again and i find it v grim! it's some combination of self absorption/self hatred, sly cruelty, simultaneous &amp; Gnawing superiority/inferiority complexes, competitive heterosexuality laden with triangulated Stuff, fantasies of revenge and humiliation, an "invest[ment] in its own outsiderness"... it all just feels v bilious after a while, slides acidicly up my throat! i have my own baggage that i have chosen to set down, i am deeply uninterested in novels centred around adults who seem to carry around the specific insecurities and resentments of their fifteen year old selves ?  Bunny is a fairytale woven from cotton candy and the cinders of hell - a saccharine nightmare. This novel follows Samantha’s entanglement with a group of girls called the “Bunnies,” while participating in an MFA program at an Ivy League University. The Bunnies are a mean girl clique at the core, with a coming-of-age style immaturity and powerful intelligence. What could possibly go wrong? I knew I was in for a ride, but I wasn’t exactly sure what kind. Bunny is bizarre, dreamlike, cult-y. I was pleasantly surprised at the satirical sharpness and metaphor riddled prose Awad pumped into this work.I am being vague, as this novel is best served blind. Bunny feels like hot girl fight club… And you know the first rule of fight club.  3.5 / 5points taken for being predictable this was an interesting read! i definitely was pretty into it from the start, in the middle somewhere my interest dropped only to be picked back up again. the writing style was pretty consistent and gorgeous! following samantha through college as she tries to get back in the writing groove. i enjoyed almost every part, and even though i guessed all of the plot twists, i think they’re both good and SO important to the plot of the story. I will be keeping my eyes open to what mona awad continues to make, the talent is very obvious even if this book didn’t check all my boxes, i will definitely recommend it to people!   dnf at 80%. As soon as I read the phrase “smiling his Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind smile.” i knew this was gonna be bad but holy shit. Boring, no plot, protagonist is actually useless, no one has functioning braincells. this book is so wild and weird lmao loved it What…..the fuck did I just read?I liked it. I LOVED THIS 
  "I love you, Bunny!"
Wow, honestly, I have no idea how to review this book. This was a wild, and fucking weird journey. I enjoyed every moment, even though it gave me anxiety and left me confused at times. In the end, I am still quite unsure what to think, or what the fuck I just read.What I can say however, is that Mona Awad took me by the hand, into a strange world that makes absolutely no sense, and still managed to make sense to me somehow. Her prose makes you feel like you are literally in the head of the character. You are her. You forget you're reading a novel, you're just one with the weird and eccentric experiences of the protagonist.Nothing that happens in Bunny is relatable, and at the same time you feel like you've been there before, met these kinds of people before, been in a situation like that before.Surprisingly, this book made me laugh a lot. Don't get me wrong; this book isn't a funny book. It's the situational absurdity that made me cackle. The "what the fuck"-ness of it all.Overall, the story started out very strong, but lost itself a little towards the end. Otherwise a good read. 4 stars.  What the H-E-double hockey sticks did I just read? This book is like taking 2 hits of acid and trying to "have an experience" at a liberal arts college. The main character gets a surprise invite to join a writing workshop she refers to as the "Smut Salon" with "The Bunnies," aka Cupcake, Vignette, Creepy Doll, and Duchess.Just as weird, if not stranger than All's Well.🧐🐰📚📝🐰💄🥴💋🧟‍♂️🔪💊🦢🤯🤔I quietly prayed for the hug implosion all year last year. That their ardent squeezing might cause the flesh to ooze from the sleeves, neckholes, and A‐line hems of their cupcake dresses like so much inane frosting. That they would get tangled in each other’s Game of Thrones hair, choked by the ornate braids they were forever braiding into each other’s heart‐shaped little heads."I watch them move closer together, forming a tighter ring. I watch them hold hands. A swell of hot longing rises in me like a red wave. Wait. Me too in the circle. Me, me. I hold my own hands in the corner and try to make myself into a circle.'Bunny, stop moving over there.'I am quiet as rainbows. I am still as trees. I watch them close their so pretty eyes. I close mine too but somehow I can still see. The room is creepy-serious, quieter than even my rainbow quiet."She was a great girl-shaped forest. She was a thing on fire. Her hand was leaves and smoke and snow and flesh all at once.~ *The Craft* meets *Mean Girls* ~  4.5/5It was everything I dreamed of. „Bunny” was extremely twisted, wicked, convoluted and grusome but in the best way possible. It’s like a modern macabresque fairytale meeting „Frankenstein” and „Mean Girls”.Awad wonderfully shows her readers that the line between reality and imagination is fluid, that it’s really had to determine what is true and what is false or whether our protagonist is just an artist or is pretty much insane. It gave me immaculate Nabokov vibes in terms of elussiveness of cognition and Awad’s approach to fiction. In terms of Awad’s writing I’m highly tempted to paraphrase Nabokov’s words that the main function of (his) writing is proving that something like „a book” doesn’t exist at all - that quote was ringing in my ears throughout reading this whole book.I have so many thoughts on „Bunny” and I am sure that I will read it again very very soon.  i was gonna give this around 2 stars but i liked the writing style so decided to round it up to 3. i think the problem with this was that it had magical realism/fantasy vibes which definitely isn’t my kind of book. it was really weird and i didn’t know what was happening the entire time. even after the ‘twist’ which is supposed to reveal the truth, i still had to look up explanations on reddit, so i think the reveal could’ve been made a bit clearer because i was still confused when i got to the end. i appreciate and understand the satirical nature of this, but it just wasn’t for me.  Prendi una favola gotica, mettici un paio di stronzette bugiarde alla Pretty Little Liars, aggiungi un college esclusivo in stile Dark Academia, una scrittura lirica da farti accapponare la pelle e qualche puccioso coniglietto da mangiare a colazione insieme a un mini cupcake. Eccoti servito: questo è “Bunny” di Mona Awad!  I absolutely loved the first half of this novel, but the premise wore a bit thin for me as it went on. Still well worth a read for the wickedly subversive humor and for the undertone of loneliness and rejection that Awad deftly carries throughout to bring this wild plot down to earth. 3.5 Mean girls on a bubblegum chewing, sparkly unicorn riding, mini-cupcake binging acid trip.This book is genius. It lives in Wonderland with the words "Read me" on it. And then it changes you forever. Does anyone actually know what this book is about?????? Other than a scathing critique of MFA writing programs? I'm pretty sure that's in there but beyond that??You either go along for the trippy ride or you hate this. Fun and disturbed nonsense.  Review to come  That. Was. WILD. reread 2023still a banger------this was very weird and very goodheathers x the secret history x the craft  “I mean, you have to kill your Darlings, remember?” loved how weird this was but man i could not care less about anyone in this book I still don’t know if I hate it or love it. But I cannot give it less than 5 stars. what the fuck is this book ?????? wow hahahah cool idea, annoying execution. dnf @ 20%might come back to this one eventually because i didn't get very far. ⬇️watch my monthly wrap up for a more in depth review!⬇️https://youtu.be/ugsEFgszrGAOverall rating: 3/5⭐️s An utterly brilliant satirical take-down of elite MFA programs combined with an equally bonkers horror story. And it's laugh-out-loud funny. I gobbled this up in a few sittings. After reading this and the wonderful All's Well, Mona Awad's work is on my "automatic buy" list from here on out.  dnf @ 36%. i tried, i really did. i wanted to give up at around the 20% marker but i forced myself to give it another chance because people described it as “weird, quirky and insane” so of course my curiosity got the best of me but i just couldn’t. the writing is so pretentious and nonsensical. the main character Samantha is such a whiner. i read a couple of spoiler reviews talking about the plot twists and i’m glad i dnfed it cause i would’ve been underwhelmed either way  If it wasn't for the fact that I wasy buddy reading it I would have DNFed it after chapter one.Why, you ask?Oh idk, let me show you just few linef from said chapter:Nails the colour of natural poison.Her David Bowie eyes.Their skins glowing with health insurance.And my personal favourite:Ava's gaze was formidable and EUROPEAN.What does that even mean? EUROPEAN GAZE. Jesus take the wheel, honestly.Then the "love interest" is described as having, obviously, a leonine face. Like, what? He also wears an obscure band tshirt, which is the most typical personality trait of ALL the YA misunderstood boys. Give me a break.He also carries with his the scent of green tea" which is only two steps away for "smelling of pine needles, smoke and broken promises".Unfortunately I kept going and was rewarded with lines like 
  VAGINA-PINK ROSES
i think the best review of this book is one particular bit that, imo, describes this whole "reading experience" pretty well.“Whenever I read one of Victoria’s vignettes, I always feel so dumb because I can hardly understand them at all. And then I blame myself. I think, Kira, this must be just too brilliant for you to grasp. Surely you must have missed something. Even though there’s always been this small voice inside of me that says, Um, what the fuck is this, please? This makes no sense. This is coy and this is willfully obscure and no one but Victoria will ever get this. I would in fact need to live inside Victoria’s spoiled, fragmented, lazy, pretentious little mind to get it. And who apart from us, apart from me, is going to be willing to do that? To work all night with a Victoria Decoder? Who would even care to? And then I feel like screaming JUST SAY IT. TELL ME WHAT HAPPENED. TELL MEWHAT THE FUCK THIS MEANS AND WHAT YOU DID WITH HIM EXACTLY.”A silence so profound it’s noise. White noise. Beneath which I hear laughter. His laughter. Behind a human fist whose fingernails he’s painted all the colors of the rainbow.“I guess what I’m saying,” Kira continues, more quietly, “is that I understand now. I should have trusted myself as a reader. My instincts as a reader are so, so valuable. And I’m grateful to VictoriaI'll just leave you with that.  I finished this strangely wonderful book well over a week ago and I still can't get the story or characters out of my mind! Samantha Heather Mackey, a student at Warren University in New England feels like an outsider among her peers. She is in the very exclusive MFA program and she absolutely detests a group of her fellow students called the Bunny’s. The Bunny’s are a clique of annoyingly cutesy rich girls who call each other Bunny. Samantha gets an invitation to one of their parties and her whole life changes. Awad immediately pulled me into Samantha’s world and didn’t let the go until the very last page. I knew going into this one that it is notoriously labeled as ‘weird’ by readers but hey I’m an odd human so I can deal with weird. Reading Bunny is like having a strange dream. At times it felt like a violent fever dream and others a silly daydream. Either way, I loved it! This book is filled with dark humor and satire. I loved how Awad not only poked fun of silly girl cliques but at prestigious Ivy League programs as well. This book won’t be for everyone. I can see this one as being in the extremes of readers loving it or hating it. But if you are interested in dark academia mixed with the outrageous and bizarre then I would definitely recommend this one to you!  2.5 stars. Well... at the start this book was funny and i thought yeah! Something a wee bit silly or diff. It really reminds me of the film the craft or something else that i have read or watched that is very similar. I really liked the idea and you do need to read the whole book till the last min where everything is properly revealed. The characters are ok. Well Samantha and ava are great! There was parts i was like oh no!! Or desp to find out about them. The others were crazy in there own way. It did drag a little and the quiet regular mention of sex or sex related chat got a bit pointless i felt but the story on a whole on reflection was good. A craft like, schizophrenic and crazy view of a young girls time at college. Who is lonely,confused and gets mixed up in something totally out of her ordinary..or is it. Its not till the last few chapters we properly find out.  third wave feminist art as blood magic? i've never been more in. conventionally attractive clique of wealthy girls are the complex villains? so so good. scathing , hilarious, and also somehow very accurate but mystical take on academia? chef's kiss. stunning &amp; supportive relationship between two women in a queer coded friendship? incredible. wish it was more outwardly queer, but it's fine, i guess! incredibly and confusingly hot monsters? very in. bunny is so gripping and unsettling and has a cyclical style that sucks you into its spell. such a good and darkly funny read.catch my slightly more serious and in depth review in Quill &amp; Quire’s July/August 2019 issue!  A what the fuck marmite horror book that I loved sinking my teeth into. Samantha is in her final year at the exclusive university Warren; known for its stellar arts programme. However within her art programme are the Bunnies: a group of women decked in pastel, glittery and nauseating pep talks. As the year progresses and Samantha dives into the Bunnies world..let’s just say not is all as it seems.I really loved this. Completely original and revelling in its mind fuckery - this book pulled no punches and went wacko without losing the plot. Something I didn’t think was possible.   *4.5 maybe??This entire book was a fever dream. Bunny is definitely not the book for everyone but I think it was the book for me. It was seriously one of the strangest things I've ever read. I loved it. Starting a petition for A24 to turn this book into a film because....holy shit man i'm speechless as fuck. As someone who loves 'the secret history' by donna tartt, i would definitely recommend this!  Honestly, I have no idea what I just read. I’m not sure if I loved it or hated it.  I have no idea how I will ever review this one! LOL! hi what the fuck did i just read Not totally sure what the fuck I just read but I know I enjoyed it!!!! This is one of the weirdest books I have ever read. The writing is gorgeous and I think this book is smarter than me. I’m disturbed. I loved this.  I don’t even know what the fuck I just read. It is weird as hell and I enjoyed it.You should read this when you’re high. dnf @ pg 203what a waste of my time  mean girls but add acid. in my samantha arc xx this is the real feminist manifesto actually 4.75⭐️ I need a few days to process before I commit to a star rating because honestly, it could either be a 1 or a 5 🫠 pretty sure i hallucinated this Reading this book's like you're watching people take lsd and trip while you're being completely sober Thank you @headofzeus for gifting me a copy of this wild ride of a book! I think this book is one of those where you have to just get on board with the weirdness otherwise you’re just going to be like wtf and probably not enjoy it. I thought it was so FUN and I devoured it in 24 hours - I even stayed up past my bedtime to finish it! That never happens, I need my 8 hours..Samantha doesn’t fit in with her peers at Warren University, and she certainly doesn’t fit in with the cosy clique of girls who all call each other by the pet name ‘Bunny’, and yet she finds herself inexplicably drawn into their candyfloss and sprinkle-covered world, which turns out to be a facade for something a lot darker....Awad absolutely nails the setting of this book - a fictional Ivy League uni in a New England town which masquerades as well-to-do and preppy while a bleaker reality simmers underneath. She has a very edgy sense of humour, and doesn’t shy away from the visceral and gross - if you have a very weak stomach I probably wouldn’t recommend this one!.The whole book was strong, but I particularly enjoyed the first and second sections - part of the second section is narrated in the first person plural which makes for an utterly bewildering but compelling piece of writing, hitting home the idea of collective, cultish identity..It has a dark, fairytale-esque vibe, madness, wicked sharp writing, and overall is just a whole heap of gritty fun!  Absolutely bizarre. Reading this felt like I was inhabiting some sort of strange dreamworld that was masquerading as normal life. At times though I'd argue that this was to the detriment of the story because there are elements of this novel that are unarguably meant to be the normal way of things... but I wasn't convinced by them. And yes, I'm being intentionally vague here because it would be very easy to spoil this novel, and I don't want to do that because I think it's definitely worth checking out. The horror elements of this worked really well, I just wanted a bit more of them and a little more... explanation? But if you want to just let your mind wander and embrace all of the weirdness that Bunny has to offer, then you'll definitely enjoy this. Awad has some imagination!  What the fuck was this.I loved it.The way she describes things with words so contorted is insane to me.Some believe there is no meaning behind this craziness of a book, but I completely disagree.It makes you ask at the end with all of Awad’s hints, “Is it all just a figment of Samantha’s imagination?”Is it time to give up and break away from the childish imagination that can overtake us and instead go into the “real world” and be an adult? (Like her mom had said)Awad defies this by being a grown adult, and still creating cut throat imagination that feels like insanity, leaving the reader to wonder…how far can imagination go and what is actually real.Absolutely brilliant.This is not a “normal book.” I don’t like normal.  Brilliant story in so many ways!!! Awad pushes the boundaries with this one to deliver a story that's wickedly sarcastic and wonderfully weird. This won't appeal to everyone (hence the polarizing reviews) but for anyone open to something very different, this is a wild ride. It's a story that packs a punch with its scathing satire, creepy horror, and clever allusions, all wrapped up in a spellbinding tale of friendship and desire, loneliness and belonging. I listened to this on audio, and narrator Sophie Amoss nails it!! Perfection! I want to get a physical copy of this book too, as there were so many quotable moments that I want to go back and re-read this!  Writing style is so amazing that it takes you to the wildest imagination of the protagonist... leaving you with unanswered questions, making you feel the presence of demons hinding in your mind you think you had mitigated...it's not a ride, it's a whole new experience of imagination...Loved every single word from this.  Ok????? I maybe in the minority? I hated this. This seems to be in the hit or miss catagory? Definitely a miss for me. I like weird but this is weird and BORING! If it's a weird mindscrew story it's got to be interesting to help me wade through the weirdness. No point aka plot at all! I actually got mad at this book! I did like the author's writing. Not ready to give up on Mona Awad yet.  4.5 stars? Let’s just say Means Girl + The Craft = THIS BOOK.This book kinda just drags you into a loop which you’re trying to stop but you’re not sure if you really stopped when you think you did.After reading this book I highly recommend looking at videos because you’re going to be mindfucked or you might not be but still it truly helps!!!(Sorry I had to change the rating, 3 times)  mona sweetie are you okay?  4.5 stars I don’t know how to explain why I found this book about murdering boy bunnies and hallucinations so relatable. Just that I too am a lonely creative writhing student.  
  09/10/2020
-nervous laughter- WTF? All jokes aside, I'm going to sit on this one for a while and then write an actual review  Well that sure was weird as fuck.  love it when women go mad  rounding it up to three stars, think in hindsight that the audiobook was the problem I just know it’s gonna take some time to even begin to think of a review for this…phew. all I can say rn is….I liked it? I’m pretty sure I did?---- okay a "real" review ----A part of me is thinking... is this symbolism of how isolating the creative process is? How it could make you go crazy...or wild (for lack of better words)? How it could make you do things you wouldn't normally do? How you could lose yourself and lose your sense of reality when diving in just a little too deep? Was it meant to display repressed desires? Mental illness? Alienation and loneliness? My mind is still spinning with this book’s “meaning” and the endless ways that it could potentially be interpreted. That is what frustrates people most, the fact that there is no definite answer for anything and things get hazy. I was conflicted about whether I enjoyed it. Once I just accepted the story and the many questions I had surrounding it, I realized it was pretty entertaining. I couldn’t stop reading it even when I had to. I was constantly asking myself “what's going to happen next,” or “how could things possibly get more bizarre?” Seeing the word hallucinogenic being used to describe this book was spot on for me. Given other reviews and opinions, I believed I wouldn't enjoy Mona Awad’s writing style, but it was the total opposite. Of course, the pretentiousness is there...cynicism and snobbery were thrown in too, but I liked it. I felt as if it fits with the themes and subjects of the story. I’ve come to accept that no review I conjure up will ever feel finished to me so I’m just going to end it here. This book was weird as hell, you’ll either love it or hate it. I loved it, 4 stars🐇  what the fawk My kind of weird.  I was confused thought out the book. And it was hard to understand the plot.  4,5/⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ Like a winding dream that’s strange and nonsensical yet somehow fits together, Bunny was filled with culty cliques, writers block, exploding bunnies, and decapitated boys. I love a book involving writers and this one was no exception, even as it delved into the strange, dark, and comically erotic. Such a weird and fun book, thanks to everyone who said this book was so me xoxoxo  My second read made me love this even more. I absolutely love everything about this book. It's so pretentious and I loved every second of how obsessed it is with itself. I love the exploration of academia, mental health, and creation of Work (or The Body). The ending is so open and I love all of the different directions it could go. Bunny by Mona Awad5 stars“We call them Bunnies because that is what they call each other," is the first sentence we encounter in Mona Awad’s newest release. The story is set in the backdrop of Providence (Lovecraft and weird fiction territory and this book loves to pay homage to just that) while being immersed in the life of a college grad student completing her thesis novel in creative writing. The women in her Workshop (known as the Cave because it’s a place to give birth to their creative ideas) are all Bunnies. The Bunnies are women who love glitter and squeezing each other in hugs so tight that their masses become one. It’s horrifying. The Bunnies and their basic concept is horrifying in and of itself. The weirdness doesn’t end there and neither does the horror. Samantha hates the Bunnies and wants nothing to do with them. After the Bunnies wave at her at a party and then promptly invite her to join them at one of their Smut Salons (where they read erotic fiction and poetry) she is swept into the strange and horrifying world where women don’t just call themselves Bunny, but where bunnies (yes, the cute furry ones) are turned into men. Their heads explode and the Bunnies are covered in rabbit guts and welcome their newest creation when he knocks on the door. It’s weird. It’s gory and the story just got weirder and weirder as time went on. Honestly, I was sold when I heard BooksandLaLa say this book was about a cult of women turning bunnies into men. Say no more, that’s my kind of weird. That description doesn’t even begin to cover the range of weird that we encounter, but I won’t spoil where Awad’s level of weird and horrible brilliance goes. Read it for yourself.Continue reading if you want deeper thoughts:The writing is quite stylistically not for everyone. It’s choppy and flowery, but it has writing allusions that paint a picture of how immersive the writing can be to a writer. It’s great symbolism for the obsession with creation that writers experience. The writing is quick and the choppy style lends to the reader always wanting to continue reading. I know, I did. This book was one of the quickest reads I’ve had in awhile. The writing draws and sucks you in. I could not put this book down. This novel is engrossing and enigmatic writing style is what makes this book so good.Whimsical Writing Scale: 5The main female character is Samantha. I don’t know if I like Samantha or not, but I definitely am fascinated by her world and her life. I’m fascinated by her choices and the world that she has been drawn into. I wouldn’t call her a strong heroine, but she is strong. That girl can fight when she has enough.Kick-Butt Heroine Scale: 5The Villain- I love how twisted and morally corrupt this story is. The villains are obvious, hello, it’s the title, but they are so wild to follow. The horrifying thing is that they are all one. They have no personality outside of being one massive entity and we only know what Samantha knows, so there are so many secrets when it comes to the Bunnies.“That’s when ___’s head explodes. Literally explodes. Blood and brains all over me, the walls. Blood all over the Bunnies and their whimpering boys. Bits of skull falling on the hardwood floor like hail. His headless, suited body remains standing before me. Then it collapses on the floor.”Villain Scale: 5“The Work does not come without Cost.”The characters are so intricate and I feel like even mentioning one character outside of the Bunnies leads to spoilers, so just know they are fascinating. I was always shocked and kept on my toes.Character Scale: 5This novel is a wild ride and I want everyone to read it. It was an amazing and wild ride. One of my favorite books that I’ve read in awhile. If you like weird and Lovecraftian nonsense that isn’t explained, but will grip you and freak you out then check this out.Plotastic Scale: 5Cover Thoughts: I am obsessed with the colors on this cover. It is so striking and simple.  Hm. Não é exatamente o que eu esperava e queria. Tem cenas divertidas e trechos maravilhosos, mas, em geral, não fez muita coisa por mim. Infelizmente. rtc I’m not gonna lie I did have to read an analysis of this after finishing it because I didn’t quite understand it all. THAT BEING SAIDthis was the first book I’ve binged/wanted to binge in a while. I was constantly thinking about this book when I wasn’t reading it. I think I would have enjoyed it even more if I was reading it physically (though the audiobook is really good too!) this was indeed, bizarre and weird, but I did really enjoy it. I definitely think I would enjoy it even more upon reread now that I’ve completed the story but seeing as though I was admittedly in a “what the fuck?!!” state for most of it, it’s a three star read for now. a horror adaptation of this would go CRAZYYYYY  So very. Very very meta.'Why do you lie so much? And about the weirdest little things,' my mother always asked me.'I don't know.' I always said, but I did know. It was very simple, because it was a better story.Says every writer ever.Like Christian Slater with the bomb in his trench coat pocket."If I'm truly being honest, I have no idea what his intentions are with the lawn, or anything else."If you're looking at an MFA, don't go to Warren, even if they offer you a sweet deal. And keep away from the rabbits, exploding or otherwise."Because books are dead, Smackey, didn't you know?"In the Ques/Answer section for Bunny I answered a question about the ending, so I thought I'd add it here:I got the impression Samantha writes her manuscript with herself as a character. At the end the Lion tells her he loves her work. I think everyone at the school is real ie. teachers, the Bunnies, Jude. Her manuscript starts when she's invited to Smut Salon - with an invite on an origami Swan. Ava is the swan on the lake the night when Sam thinks she loses the Lion's friendship. In her unhappiness she adds Ava's friendship to her manuscript. The school workshops are reality and she refuses to share her work. Smut Salon, the "darlings" and Max are her satire on the pretentions of MFAs.I came away with a very clever meta take of a book within a book. (A literary device I love.) I decided what was "real" and what Sam wrote - her imagination. Writing a book can really take over the author's life and fiction can include semi-autobiographical parts not acknowledged as such. As well as kill your darlings, write what you know.In the Ques/Answer section someone said Samantha has schizophrenia. I really hope Mona Awad didn't write her as that. I hate when mental illness is used as a plot device. Perhaps I have my take on the book because I didn't want to read another misrepresentation of the symptons and reality of schizophrenia for sufferers that's promoted so often in books and other media.I might be entirely wrong :-)To all my friends &amp; followers: please read Bunny and tell me what you think. Then watch (the original) 
  Heathers
 if you haven't already. I first watched it at 14 and yes, it's still my fav movie ever made. As a teen I could reel off parts whenever I needed to annoy my friends."First drafts - part of the process. Sometimes you have to kill your darlings, you know."  I think the comp to The Vegetarian is wrong. This isn't like that one. But it is VERY much like One Bloody Thing After Another and other Joey Comeau writing meets Heathers. It's dark and bloody and weird and makes little sense except it also makes complete sense. There's not a good way to explain this one -- it's about a woman named Samantha who is in an all-female MFA workshop at a prestigious school. She loathes the women who she calls bunnies; they're rich and perfect and always write about The Body and Deep Literary Themes, complimenting and complementing each other in as many ways as possible. Samantha finds refuge in Ava, an art school dropout. But when she receives an invitation to join the Bunnys for their "Smut Salon" via an origami swan, she attends. And that's when she falls down the most bizarre Lewis Carroll style rabbit hole. Intended. This is a horror novel that is infused with incredible dark humor and it's a total evisceration of MFA programs and culture. Whether or not you're a reader/writer, the elite culture will translate into whatever your area of expertise is, and Samantha's perspectives of those on the top will resonate. Don't go in expecting for everything...or maybe anything...to make sense. Go in for a good, bizarre time. Because that's exactly what you're going to get.   ➶ 2021 books: 27/60THIS BOOK?! I have been sat contemplating my thoughts on this book and I'm absolutely mind blown.first and foremost, this book was incredibly clever. I went into it knowing that many people describe it as strange and wow, what an understatement! mona awad's writing style was amazing and the way she described every element of this book really enhanced the question of 'is this real?' there were so many subtle hints informing us on what was actually occurring and what was a figment of samantha's imagination but they were so embedded within the unreliable narration, that I had absolutely no idea. the entirety of this book felt like a tripp... reflecting samantha's own imagination and experiences and yet again, the writing style aided this massively. mona awad was somehow able to make it feel like so much was happening at once, making time go increasingly quicker but other times, coming to a sudden halt. I honestly can't put into words how baffled I am at her writing in this book!!I absolutely adore books that have an unreliable narration and are left open to interpretation and this book was EXACTLY THAT. this is an absolute new favourite book of all time and its one that I'll definitely be rereading soon! I highly recommend it to everyone!  fucking crazy. loved it. read it.  Ok wow. I just finished this and am honestly still processing it so my review might be all over the place butttttt I did enjoy Awad's bizarre writing style and the risks she took writing this novel. I think it is worth the read, but not something I adored / would want to reread a thousand times. This book made me uncomfortable, and the plot was quite unsettling, but it did make me feel a lot of strong emotions- something bad writing never does. Although my feelings regarding this book seem pretty mixed, I still feel it deserves 4 stars for the chaotic plot and Awad's use of imagery, which I particularly liked. Personally, I do feel this was overhyped on a lot of social media platforms, so I did come into reading it with higher expectations that weren't fully met. Regardless, I'm glad I branched out and read this experimental work.  WTF did I just read? I mean really, WTF?! Rating this book is hard for me because honestly I had 0 enjoyment. What with the animal cruelty, the annoying, Bunny I miss you, Bunny where are you, Bunny, I love you.... good God just shut up!! That being said the writing was decent to that I had to see the story through. I had to know how it all worked out. I heard from so many that the ending saved the book for them...um it did? What did I miss? I mean the twist was cool, but I partially guessed it and it was good but not enough to make me rave. I'm sad because my daughter bought me this book for Christmas because I was dying to read it. I want to love this book, but I just don't. I will say I have never, ever read anything like this and it was captivating enough to see it through. I can see why others love it, but sadly this book and I are just not meant to be.  How I wish I was as coherent as the narrator or the Bunnies to describe my thoughts on this book: I think the perfect way to describe it would be if TSH was written by Angela Carter.It left me perturbed and intrigued. The juxtaposition of the wealthy and the impoverished ... the manic pixie and punk aesthetic...So much is going on, and I highly recommend it to those with an open-mind (if you fancy Midsomar, The Stoker, The Beguiled, The Crimson Peak, and such movies, I think you might enjoy reading this)I don't know what else to say...but, if you do ever decide to read this book, I suggest going blind ( do not even dare to read spoilers )  guys what the hell.... I LOVED IT!!!!! I love reading books and watching movies where you don’t know what was real and what was fake and this was IT for me!! This whole experience felt like i was reading about a fever dream and that i loved every moment of it. There was a huge sense of doom and you knew it was coming and when it came.... HONEY. when it rains it pours!! I want to READ it again and annotate it! I loved this book it was the perfect mix of the craft and heathers! ahhhh I AM OBSESSED!!!!!!!!!!  What the fuck did I read?I kinda loved the writing at first but it grew tiring near the end and I had to skip some parts. The characters were all highly unlikable and annoying, the protagonist just kept whining, lying, and not actually writing like she was supposed to. As for the plot... well, I honestly have no idea what actually happened or what this book is about. Mental illness probably? Who knows?If you like snappy writing and weird stories, definitely check it out though.  Me: Ah, I get it. A complex exploration of femininity and how we fetishize our trauma by cushioning it within the soft, faux-intellectual confines of academia. That's kind of basic, I gue—Mona Awad: I'm gonna make this dude's head literally explode.Me:   Um. NO. I "get" the idea, and that's great, and really quirky, and the author actually has a wonderful style of writing, but the plot was too convoluted and it gave me a headache trying to keep up with all the candy coated characters. I just want to clarify that I do understand the concept, but it didn't work for me.   WutI think I need to reread this.  I may be getting old. These strange, creative-writing-prompt, try-too-hard, shiny and sexual and murderous books just tire me. This was supposed to be literature or something? claustrophobic fever dream couldn’t put it down  Um, what? This was easily the weirdest book I've ever read. But I can't really explain it, but I kind of loved it? I don't even know what's happening right now. i wish to become samantha and join a cult in some aspects  No 3.5 idk how I feel about this... I think I liked it to some extent BUT I will probably forget about it in a few months. book playlist- https://open.spotify.com/playlist/1YY... “Gynecological hand gestures” “Legs of her voice was open” Let’s take a shot every time someone says bunny or bunnies! This has some great ratings and has been recommended to me a few times, so I was excited to start it. Unfortunately, this one is a big miss for me.   I went down the rabbit hole with this one. i think i’m to dumb for this book LOL2.5 stars Nope. What I have to say is that this book is NOT dark academia. It is so far from being one, its almost an insult to the genre that people recommend this book as such. The focus of all of this story isn't academia, its trials, and anxieties. It is not a story of ambition, of power dynamics, there is zero gothic elements to this book, there is not a single thing that would include it as a dark academia book. Again, just a reminder, just because a character is a student (at a university or a school) that does not make a book dark academia. Bye. Now if we go to Campus Novel I feel like this book fits much better, the comic/almost satiric aspect of this story, the collage feeling, the extreme meta language of it (this book is so conscious of itself) I feel like this book its much more part of the campus novel genre than it is of dark academia.Also, I wasn't scared at all reading this. I put it off for so long because what I conjured up in my mind was far far worse that what I got on the pages. I found this plot twist to be quite... silly? I just really thought this whole endeavour was dumb. I feel like this book is more of a comedy, than either a horror or even a satiric novel. Its comic because of how absurd it all is, because of the saccarine writing, it feels like you're chewing a way-too-sweet gum and you just want to spit it out because its giving you a headache. I did not like this book, and I do not recommend it.Other things I thought about this story can be found in this and this reviews. They both had the exact same thoughts that I did about every aspect of the novel.↠ 1 star✨  GIVE ME A BREAK. I've been SO excited to read this, prepared for getting grossed-out and mindblown and everything. What do I get? A headache. A headache is what I get. SPOILERS!!So, I'm doing some chapters, all seems good, looks like it's gonna get creepy, bring it, I'm ready! These 4 girl bunnies give off an unsettling feeling, and I'm thrilled to see what kind of badass stuff they're up to. What are these fucked-up, artsy, cold, and non calculating women's darkest fantasies? How deep is the ocean? This deep: ---... MEN! Men are their fantasies. Men with good genitals and it is so so so sad because they can't seem to get them to work. Yep. They just have to sacrifice more bunnies to get some dicks to WORK! It's crucial to not call them men, though - let's call them something cool, like "drafts". Around this part, I'm starting to drift off. I'm pushing through though, surely there will be some hidden agenda and outofthisworldshit coming soon! Let's leave the quadruplets for a minute and focus on our main girl, Samantha. Samantha is a very lonely and tortured little girl, and she's absolutely terrific at pointing out what's wrong with other people. Her bestie, Ava, hates everything and everyone except Samantha, and it makes her feel special. Still, she wants to be a "cool girl" as well so she starts hanging out with the 4's and gets dragged into their rituals. Now I'm like, alright, Samantha has a pretty disturbing mind, she'll summon something better than a man into the world! Her ocean is a puddle. A puddle you can jump into with tennis shoes without getting soaked feet. Because she's not only summoning a man, no, she's bringing a man to do HER business because she's too fucking scared to do them on her own. She needs a man to do her ugly business, to torture her torturers, to love her best friend more than a friend, to make her start writing again and get some inspiration. That's some women empowering right there, peeps. Let's raise our glasses and cheer for disappointment, shall we?Look, it's well written. It's detailed and makes it hard to stay awake at times, but still. It could've had a lot of potentials, and I'm sure some think this is awesome, inventive, and provocative. It just wasn't my cup of tea, even though I thought it would be.   More of like a 4.5/5, even though I didn't absolutely adore the whole reading experience. The satire was so funny and absolutely spot-on that I am willing to forgive some of its occasional slowness. I think it was a little too on-the-nose about its own metaphor in the end - about how the main character is passive and too in-her-head and lets things happen to her and doesn't ever behave with any agency and how she only fulfills her desires through third parties and how cliques operate first and foremost from a power dynamic perspective, even among themselves - but it was also very WEIRD (non-derogatory) and some of the things I was holding against the book ended up making a lot of sense when the story came full circle, so props to the author for that. Also quite appreciated the willingness (even the glee) of Mona Awad to fully engage with the pretentiousness of MFA programmes where teachers make no mf sense and experimental art could be confused with literal murder attempts and where rich people love to act like they're poor for whatever reason (legitimacy, "Art", The Body™, tApPiNg iNtO tHe wOuNd, you name it) and where cliques abound and will not hesitate to tear you to shreds to elevate themselves when they aren't using you for their own sick pleasure (we love academia). And of course loved the ending... Samantha's mind is very powerful even though it TRULY does not sound like it for 99.9% of the book lmao. Highly recommend if you like weird stories where everything goes out of control and you don't know where you'll end up next. "Engaging with The Body™" is going to live rent-free in my mind!  This was the wildest, most confusing book I've ever read in my entire life. There was not a single paragraph in this book that I read without asking, "excuse me, but what the hell is going on???" I have never felt more disoriented.I'm sure that this book is an allegory for something. I'm sure that everything symbolizes something else. There is quite a bit of intriguing social commentary in here as well. And I feel like I'm on the precipice of understanding, but I'm just not quite there yet. This next bit will contain spoilers!! Samantha is a writer, and in writing, there is this concept of "killing your darlings." Meaning that no matter how much you like a certain part of your writing, if it's unnecessary to the plot, you get rid of it. The bunnies they turn into humans are also called "darlings" or "drafts." And if they don't turn out right, they are killed. Samantha has a problem with this because I think she's too in love with her writing and does not want to "kill her darlings." Samantha and the other four are in a writing workshop together, and the other four always criticize Samantha's work harshly. In the end, they kill Ava, a swan that Samantha turned into her best friend, who I think is supposed to represent Samantha's favourite draft which she refuses to edit or get rid of. That's what I think. BUT I still don't understand this whole thing about Performance and the Body. I think it's some kind of stab at university Arts departments. Overall this book made my brain work overtime, but I still don't understand for sure what it's about.  *4.5 rounded up to 5 cus I keep thinking about how fcking weird this book is!*What a bizarre, creative story Mona Awad has written. The writing in BUNNY is like a fever dream, all distorted, grotesque and surreal. I suggest going into the book not knowing anything about it like I did, it’s much more strange and satisfying that way. My major complaint that didn’t make this book a 5-star read is that the MC has absolutely no personality whatsoever. I’m pretty sure she said less than a paragraph’s worth of words throughout the entire book. Her loneliness and silence make sense given the book’s eventual revelation, but I had to suffer through her yawn-like quality and demure sad-girl aesthetic the entire book!The good news is that I found almost all the characters besides MC so strong and well-written, even the Bunnies, who obviously you’re supposed to hate. * Another thing that annoyed me was the repetition of the phrase “like so many _____.” It made the similes seem unnecessarily pretentious. Otherwise the writing is gorgeous. This book is like nothing I’ve read before and it’s definitely not for everyone, but I really enjoyed it!  The first page was already quite a performance, with the Greek chorus of bunnies. I'm old enough to think of "Heathers" (250-odd pages later, Christian Slater is name-dropped). The novel does take its time initially to meander through the main conflict; I was enjoying it, but I might have enjoyed it a lot more when I was younger and much more hateful. Then came the first head-explosion scene. Whoa.Samantha's voice was beautifully done. Who wouldn't fall for Max, as she described him? I actually had an inkling of the Ava situation too (and I'm usually quite oblivious about these things), but she was irresistible through Samantha's eyes. So this was great fun, despite a few slow stretches. The graduation ending was maybe a bit pat, but I hope poor sweet Jonah gets some. 3.5 stars.  Το πιο περίεργο βιβλίο που έχω διαβάσει (τουλάχιστον από όσο θυμάμαι). Κυλούσε όμως γρήγορα και ευχάριστα, δε μπορώ να πω ότι βαρέθηκα, παρότι πολλές φορές αναρωτήθηκα τι στο καλό συμβαίνει. Δεν είναι πολύ τρομακτικό, αλλά είναι ατμοσφαιρικό, και αυτό το καθιστά κατάλληλο για τον Οκτώβρη. Γενικά καταλαβαίνω ότι είναι βιβλίο που ή θα είναι τελείως στα vibes σου και θα το λατρέψεις ή θα το βρεις περίεργο με κακό τρόπο και δε θα σου αρέσει. Βρίσκομαι κάπου στη μέση γιατί πραγματικά πέρασα καλά , χωρίς όμως να γίνει αγαπημενο. Αν σας εξιτάρει σαν κόνσεπτ έστω και λίγο, θα πρότεινα να το πιάσετε, ακόμα και αν είναι για να ικανοποιηθεί η περιέργειά σας.🐰   This is exactly what a 'New Adult' book should be. Magical and gory and explicitly not for kids. DNF.Did not work for me. What a drag DNF @ 83/305. I guess I’m going to be the minority with this book. I just could not get into it 🙅🏻‍♀️ I liked it? like I definitely enjoyed it? right?  This book was a fucking RIDE start to finish and I loved every second  did not understand what the fuck was going on BUT i did enjoy reading this is how girl friendships are like  I made a fatal mistake and took a shot every time the word, “bunny” was written. It only took 3 years to finish this story. This is a story that takes the fairly simple premise of abandonment and loneliness and morphs into something greater and more confusing than that simple concept. Along the way, we are presented with something that on one hand makes sense yet on the other hand does not. This is not a work meant to be pigeonholed, yet here I am trying to construct a somewhat coherent review. The protagonist of the story, Samantha is a misfit. She has entered the world of higher education at a prestigious fictional northeastern university. She does not fit the typical profile of a Warren graduate student. While a gifted writer and observer of human foibles she comes from modest means. In addition, she is an introvert who has to deal with a lot of crummy things in her life, namely a dead mother and an absentee father. Into this whirlwind of personal tumult she finds a friend she can latch onto.  Ava is the type of person that Sam strives to be. She is prepossessing with an inner confidence and an, I don’t give a fuck attitude. Together, they form a bond that is seemingly unbreakable. They dance together (tango) and basically cohabitate in Ava’s domicile. While Sam works on stories, Ava sketches and draws at a run-down café. They have similar habits and an uncanny ability to coexist.  This partnership is not as solid as it seems though. Sam is an inquisitive young lady who is struggling to find her place in the world. In her narrow scholastic world, reside four girls. While, on the surface she loathes them, she is secretly intrigued by them. They have so many obnoxious characteristics, namely their penchant for referring to each other as “bunny” and for ganging up on her. This coven of bunnies, inhabit a world that is incomprehensible to her. Full of prestige and wealth, these girls represent a new different world. Despite her hostile attitude to the bunnies, Sam is invited to one of their infamous “Smut Salons”. She discusses the invitation with Ava who tries to persuade her not to go. Her curiosity is piqued and she figures worst comes to worst she will have a story to tell Ava about. Things do not go exactly to plan. The Smut Salon is really a cult. Not only is it a cult, but the bunnies have the supernatural ability to create “hybrids”. These hybrids while humanoid at first glance lack certain qualities. They are pre-programmed to flatter the bunnies with over-the-top drivel. They also have deformities in their hands and faces. Most terrifying they have a propensity to explode, especially when asked questions.  When one of the hybrids explodes on Sam, she is traumatically affected. She is slipped some pills by a bunny and is effectively indoctrinated. Strangely, this part of the novel which contains the most action was the least effective. It resembled the slow part in a movie in which the main character has a falling out with their friend or significant other. Also the journey into the bunnies’ world while fascinating soon became overwhelming. Their hive mentality made me feel oversaturated.  Essentially, Sam is a probation member of the bunny clique but has to pass the remaining hurdle. During one of the smut salons she is forced to conjure up a hybrid. This gory process which involves melding a rabbit with a human is done through a sort of telekinesis ala Carrie. Not being able to complete this process, Sam is ostracized from the group. While, waiting to go to her dilapidated apartment she meets a young man, Max with a lupine face and a mysterious aura. With no bunnies and no Ava, Sam is back to square one.  Or is she? A bunch of wild things happen (I guess not any wilder than a hybrid producing cult) and the fragility of friendship is tested. Max is an entity that is the perfect avatar. As opposed to the hybrids created by the bunnies Max exerts an agency. Max sets out to destroy the bunnies by way of cultivating relationships with each of them. He is able to drive a wedge that irreparably changes the course of the bunnies’ trajectory.  The author of this fascinating work, Mona Awad, is able to a craft a work of fantasy that is still firmly rooted in reality. Her world is full of supernatural events but those characters contend with the confusion and pain of real life. The question of what and who is make- believe pervades this novel but the theme of despair is what drives it. Even with that despair there is a shit-ton of humor and slick observations throughout. At one point Sam compares her living situation with Ava’s and says, “Unlike my street, which smells of sad man piss hers smells of autumn leaves.” Another witty remark was, “The way she says alone makes it sound like a cave. Like some hideous, dark cave whose oozing walls are teeming with all the unpleasant things of this world, I am crawling willingly, brazenly into this awful space of my own free will. Shoveling the vermin I found scuttling across the floor into my mouth for sustenance." It is by melding the beautiful with the ugly and the real with the make-believe that Mona Awad has created a hybrid that is unlike anything I have previously read.   I am so utterly confused. I have no idea what just happened in that book. AND I LOVED IT. I loved the writing and I know that the whole 'you dont know what is actually going on in this plot' thing threw some people off and caused them to not like it as much, but I thought it was the best part of the story. Not much else to say because I am in complete shock. Pulled me out of my reading slump though!  Wtf ja właśnie przeczytałam?👀  i love you, bunny 🐰 💕 Weird, darkly funny, and very clever. This is The Secret History meets Heathers. A lot of people describe this as horror, which is one take on it. It is also most definitely social satire. The strangest book I’ve ever read, I couldn’t put it down.  Wow this was right up my dark alley rabbit hole! Enjoyed it with all its mysterious what is really happening storylines. However I need to think a bit and process and will write more later, maybe if my head doesn’t explode as I think maybe I’ve finally read too many crazy women stories?!! Okay so I know I loved this book, but I can’t give it a full 5 stars until I can articulate why. But I definitely loved it. Also WTF did I just read?! Because while I freaking loved this book, I also spent a lot of my time literally thinking “what the literal f**k?!”  Bunny seems to be a polarising book, getting intensely more weird with every passing chapter. I'm still undecided about how I feel about this book, but reading online theories regarding what the author may have intended has opened me up to some interesting interpretations.The story starts off relatively straight-forward with a Mean Girls/Heathers type of plot, where our protagonist, Samantha, joins a clique of her classmates (the Bunnies). Something is not quite right with the Bunnies acting together as a hive-mind and she seems to have ended up in a cult.However, as the novel progresses it becomes increasingly bizarre, steeped in obscure metaphors. The line between what is and isn't reality is blurred to the point where the ending is far too open-ended.  In other words, many online theories suggest the entire book is a meta exploration of Samantha's mental state, from which her thesis is spawned.  Samantha's mental state and university journey could also be compared to The Bell Jar, although Sylvia Plath presents the story as it is and doesn't double-cross the reader with an unreliable narrative.I definitely enjoyed the creepiness and Mona Awad's clever use of songs to tie into the narrative. However if you are looking for a horror story with Heathers vibes My Best Friend's Exorcism is far more enjoyable.Overall, Bunny is a much more complex story than what it seems on the surface.  This book is a total mind blow but I loved it. I apologize to my boyfriend who sat through a 14 hour car ride with me reading and not speaking almost the entire time. It was completely unputdownable and made me feel like I was tripping from start to finish. I will admit that I had to go on Reddit to better understand wtf I had just read but I still 100% recommend.   It was weird, creepy, and confusing and I really liked most of it but then part 3 went in directions that I didn't like and left me off with a sort of meh feeling. Sucks that I wasn't absolutely obsessed with this but I am still glad that I read it. 2.5 STARS | GRADE D+FEATURING⇢Mean Girls &amp; Heathers...Mashed w/Weird ScienceWeird AFCultish CliquesNew England UniversityCreative WritingWith Audio Performed by Sophie AmossMY THOUGHTS⇢The Audio was fairly good...she pulled off the annoying bunny dialogue really well, her Scottish accent felt a tad forced and awkward, but it's not in the story that much, so not too a big deal.The first third of the story I was really into it, actually...but then somewhere around the middle, I got really confused and then it was like the story was floating up above my head somewhere...and only bits and pieces got through.&nbsp; While I've never done a buddy or bookclub kind of read, I can see where a person would definitely benefit from someone(s) to bounce things off from while reading this.Ultimately, I feel like I missed the boat on this one...like maybe somewhere in this f-ed up story was a thought-provoking narrative filled with allegory, satire and all those things that your teacher wanted you to convey in your stories.&nbsp; But it was completely lost on me...It was kind of like one long-ass acid trip, and the bunnies...don't even get me started on the bunnies.Oh, bunny...I love you bunny, your so pretty bunny...I love your dress bunny...THE BREAKDOWN⇢&nbsp;&nbsp;Plot⇢&nbsp;2.5/5Narration Performance⇢&nbsp;4.5/5Characters⇢&nbsp;3.5/5The Feels⇢&nbsp;3/5Pacing⇢&nbsp;3/5Addictiveness⇢&nbsp;2.5/5Theme or Tone⇢&nbsp;3/5Flow (Writing Style)⇢&nbsp;1.5/5Backdrop (World Building)⇢&nbsp;3/5Originality⇢&nbsp;3/5Ending⇢&nbsp;1.5/5 Cliffhanger⇢&nbsp;???_____Book Cover⇢&nbsp;It's eye-catching, for sure.Setting⇢&nbsp;Warran University, New EnglandSource⇢&nbsp;Libby Audiobook (Library)Length⇢&nbsp;11 hours, 44 minutes
  
  "Every time I read some of Victoria's vignettes I feel so dumb because I can hardly understand them at all. And then I blame myself. I think, Kira, this must be just too brilliant for you to grasp. Surely you must have missed something. Even though there's always been some small voice in my head that says, Um, what the fuck is this please? This makes no sense. This is coy and this is willfully obscure and no one but Victoria will ever get this. I would in fact need to live inside Victoria's spoiled, fragmented, lazy, pretentious little mind to get it. And who apart form us, apart from me, is going to be willing to do that? To work all night with a Victoria Decoder? Who would even care to? And then I feel like screaming JUST SAY IT. TELL ME WHAT HAPPENED. TELL ME WHAT THE FUCK THIS MEANS AND WHAT YOU DID WITH HIM EXACTLY." -Bunny, Mona Awad, direktni citatPošto su ljudi preosetljivi za spojlere za ovu knjigu, a kapiram da ima još neko ko će se upecati ovako kao ja, želeći da sazna u čemu je fama, neka malo konkretnija mišljanja ostavljam ovde ispod.Kao prvo, onaj kraj uopšte nije bio ništa spektakularno i stvarno mi nije jasno šta su ljudi očekivali da će se desiti pa ih je toliko iznenadio završetak ove knjige. Kao drugo, Samanta je toliko pasivan i iritantan lik koji ništa ne ume sam, da mi je na nos izašlo da čitam o njoj. Ništa nije objašnjeno (ne znam ni što sam se nadala) i svi likovi ovde su bili samo karikature samih sebe. Ništa konkretno za šta možete da se uhvatite, samo beskonačno dugačak fever dream koji nije čak ni toliko zanimljiv da treba da ima 300 strana. Da nije imala ovoliki hajp, odustala bih od knjige posle prve trećine, ali sam se uporno nadala da će biti bolje. E pa ipak neće.   I think conceptually Bunny is really brilliant, but the potential emotional impact is blunted by a messy execution. Awad is stuck in this awkward middle ground between keeping this a grounded, realistic narrative and letting things go totally, insanely, off the rails. And for an otherwise funny and biting satire of the MFA-ification of the contemporary American novel, it’s sure written like the contemporary MFA novel on the sentence level. Prose that is impressive, witty, but ultimately unambiguous, seemingly self conscious and thus unwilling to even attempt to be beautiful.  I just don’t understand how this was soo hyped. The book felt like it was trying too hard to be quirky and unique; utterly disappointed.I was so looking forward to reading Bunny. Many booktubers and bookstagrammers kept hyping it up, but omg this was annoyingly the worst, and I read the whole thing wishing things would change, yet to my disappointment, it was just repetitive! The writing style was not for me, many repeated sentences and repeated names! Like actual repetitions.. every other sentence, the name Samantha would be mentioned. Got on my f**king nerves!   3.5 🌟 Yeah, it was weird, but I kinda wanted it to be even weirder, y'know? More like Fight-Club-weird and less like Mean Girls on Acid. It ended up being quite boring to be honest. this book was so fucking weird but like in a good way???? nothing like i've ever read before omg omg idk what i just read but I love it I'm not sure what have I just read but I really enjoyed it nevertheless. But “like oh em gee bunny this story was super weird”. Fast read, captivating, funny, creepy, and psychological thriller. Would highly recommend the book; also better when paired with the audiobook.  My pea-sized brain cannot comprehend this abstract nonsense.  i don’t even know.  frankenstein but make it coquette sprinkled with mental illness. just girly things 🐇🦢🦌 i’m absolutely obsessed with mona awad’s twisted mind; this book felt like a fever dream, hallucination, hypnosis  (the rating is probably going to change because the last thing I am its consistent, and even less with this one)this whole book felt like a fever dream, one that i enjoyed, i think? i had high, and at the same time, low expectations for this book and that's why i think it's a solid 3, or maybe 3.5, they lost me a little bit at the end, everything till then was very good and i was really excited about what was going to happen but then the ending was just... okay ig?? i loved the writing and the descriptions the author gave, the characters (even the ones i didnt like) were really interesting and the plot wasnt something i expected which i appreciated but then, tf was that???? also, why on earth they can do all of that?????????also, i hate how much i see myself in the main character, I KNOW THATS BAD but i got problems too okay?17/10 - 21/10  what in the fucking hell is this???this is like the love child of Mean Girls, Heathers, The Craft, and Frankenstein. i don't wanna say too much because this book is just fucking weird, bizarre—or whatever term that would fit the description of 'something strange'.but you know what—underneath all the weird shit that has happened, this books talks about loneliness, emotional trauma, acceptance, academic pressure, and high reverence to the concept of perfectionism. i think if you are a grad student—whatever department you're in—this book might resonate to you because the hidden philosophical messages behind each character and the plot lines are just so well-thought. the author provides several slivers of commentaries, something that'll cling inside your brain, through dark, satirical writing. as an aspiring artist (writer to be specific), this slaps so hard. the only reason why i rate this 4 stars is because of the pacing, the middle drags a bit, but fortunately it has redeemed itself.  just vibes. felt like i was high on acid while reading this experimental work because wow!!! bunny o bunny we never call them boys we call them hybrids- certainly a great feminist manifesto. this felt like a twisted female gaze version of the secret history adding a little fleabag s1 because why not?! unlikable mentally ill female protagonist ruining her life and everyone's. certainly the right cultish vibe, now i want to make my fantasies real by the help of cutesy bunnies 🐇   I'm going to have to sit with Bunny for a while? It was weird as hell and also a little bit gross sometimes. I do very much appreciate what it was trying to do with its narrative and Samantha's perspective and how it explored themes of isolation and loneliness.Also, academia is a nightmare etc etc.  i loved it af but don’t ask me what was it about bc i have no idea 🫡 WHAT A RIDE🐇💐 fight club but for the girlies I feel like I’ve been inducted into some strange literary cult just by way of reading this. Words fail me While I found this quite entertaining, I haven't a clue what it's really about. Is it a satire of MFA programs? Is it performance art? A fever dream? Or just batshit craziness?I'll never look at bunnies the same way again. Do you ever just finish a book, and are so blown away, and so emotional about it, that it’s genuinely hard for you to relate to people who either don’t get it, or do get it and just don’t like it? That’s me with this book. This book for me is absolutely genius. Like deep down I know it’s just a book. But to me this book is just so special. With that being said, I do think I have to recognize this book probably is not for everyone. The beautiful mind that went into this book is one that I feel like I want to know. It’s so weird. It’s such a strange concept once you first find out what’s happening with the bunnies. But it’s brilliant. Mona Awad, can we be friends? I guess I should say now, since I myself was worried going into it, there IS in fact animal death and unethical things happening to animals. However, it surprised me at how much it didn’t upset me? Especially since my favorite animals are bunnies and I just love animals in general. I think it might be because somehow, even though they were a big part of the book, the animals dying wasn’t a huge focus in my opinion. Like yes it talked about blood. But that’s about it, and it was pretty brief. The ethics thing could upset you more I guess. But I was able to look past it at the rest of what this book is. There was just so much going on, it wasn’t a huge issue for me and was done quickly and with purpose. It doesn’t exactly mention suffering… but the aftermath of what’s done to the bunnies can be unsettling, since the bunnies do indeed go through a bit of a… transformation. Everyone is different and can handle different things. Taking what I said above into consideration… just be cautious. I’ve seen some say they found it very graphic in terms of animal death. But I didn’t. Now on to what this book is exactly…I have a new understanding of reviewers who seem overly vague. Because really anything about this book seems like a spoiler to me. This is a book I feel is genuinely best to go into knowing nothing but what’s on the back of the book.and even then do with that what you will. This book is so much more. What I can tell you through, is this book does follow Samantha, who is stuck in a workshop class with the bunnies. Four girls who seem to have a hive mind and move as one body. They even refer to each other as bunny. Often Sam and everyone else even sees them as one body. Her and her best friend Ava hate them. They even give them nicknames such as the duchess, vignette, cupcake, and creepy doll, to describe their style and personalities. But when she gets invited to join them and learns of weird, magical experiments they do with rabbits, she gets utterly sucked in. And then things with them and Ava, just escalate from there. What I’ll also tell you is, don’t trust the reality in this book. Because the ending is pretty insane in my opinion. It’s one of those reveals that was right there in front of you the whole time… but you probably won’t see it until the last portion of the book haha.I will say I think some of the book did go over my head. I got enough from it to enjoy it, but even as distance comes between me and the book I get more and more confused about certain things. It’s a great book for convo because things continue to get muddled the more I talk about or read about this book. It doesn’t ruin the book, but I do wish certain parts were less muddy. This is a book that has lots of important topics as well. The toxicity of pretentious higher level schools, loneliness, feeling lost, the relationships between females in these sorts of environments and how brutal they can be. It’s dark. It’s disturbing. It’s gorey in some parts. There’s vengeance. And honestly? It’s straight up weird at times. And the writing is absolutely beautiful. You may not agree if you don’t like somewhat flowery descriptions. But to me it’s the perfect amount of flowery. Not too much, but enough to keep me wanting to drink the words right up. Sam is a good mc, and I have to say I found her both likable and relatable. She’s sassy, but I didn’t find her to be too sassy. The bunnies are straight cult vibes, and while they all dress differently, they really are true hive. I found it super fun to read their part in this too, and was having even more fun when their true colors actually came out to show how… evil (I guess that’s the right word), that they could be. And yes haha, axes are a big part of this book! There’s a reason for them being drawn on some of the pages. Honestly after reading so many books with terrible endings…. I thought this ending was soooo powerful and it rang so true in a relatability sense. I loved everything about it. Including the mysterious max. His part is actually what made me cry. This book is about friendship. And it’s beautiful. It’s heartbreaking. This is the kind of book I will for sure reread because I’m sure if I do I’ll find out new things about it each time. I will read everything this author puts out. I swear to that.  lol what the fuck I šta sad da kažem, koju ocenu da dam... What the fuck, like actually what the fuck this was batshit 3.5⭐ [ENG] If you're looking for a book that's half "A Clockwork Orange" and half "Fight Club" this is it.[PL] Jeśli szukasz książki, która jest w połowie "Mechaniczną Pomarańczą" a w połowie "Fight Clubem", to jest właśnie ta książka. dnf @21%might pick this up again, might not. it was a bit too slow for my taste Відгук на цю книжку буде дуже стислим: дивновеселокривавоогиднозахоплюючекрасивонезрозумілобентежноУ мене все. Love ya 😘  "Why do you lie so much? And about the weirdest little things?" my mother always asked me. "I don’t know" , I always said. But I did know. It was very simple. Because it was a better story.AND WHAT A STORY SHE SPUN!!!this one is a perfect combination of writing style which is bizarre enough that makes you keep turning those pages quickly and characters captivating enough to keep you engaged!My reaction to book really went ~FROM - TO - I would recommend giving it a go if you like tripping over Tic Tac and biting gorey Cupcakes!AND To the people who take every word in the book literally - DONT!To the people who take every word in the book as a possible metaphor for something - You are doing great sweetie!  Here’s the thing: What the fuck? I really don't know that I can really describe my experience with this book, so I'll illustrate it. I'll tap the wound to access The Work. To engage The Body (you'll get my drift if you read it)Samantha Heather Mackey is at Warren for her grad program in creative writing. Her workshop peers are particular. They call each other bunny.   She distinguishes them by their unique nicknames,  Cupcake, Creepy Doll, Vignette,  and  The Duchess. They're sweet like marshmallows and rainbows and powder sugar and all things magical and sparkling. They huddle, and they rub their noses and they are just perfect bunny-loving bunnies. Samantha hates them. What's wrong with them?  Suddenly, the bunnies are interested in Samantha. They so are. They definitely are. Samantha is invited to  bunnyworld  and down the rabbit hole, we go along with her.     There are so many bunnies! Bunnies, darlings, drafts...     Some of them nice, some of them not. Be careful what you wish for! You may get a Donny Darko bunny from time to time... It's all fun and games until it's not. One day Samantha snaps out of the  bunny-cult  and goes back to her previous life. Her not fancy life. Her sad life. The life where the moon doesn't shine on her house because it's that sad and ugly. Leaving the glittery, sugary bunny world may be dangerous to her friends... my, oh my! What can possibly go wrong? 
  Intrigued? Confused? Asking yourself WTF is this review all about? 
You have just entered the world of Bunny. The weirdest book I've ever read to this day, where I asked myself all those (and more) questions throughout the whole thing, but I could not put down. I may have taken some of the bunny tic-tacs myself. This book is funny. Dark and funny. I loved it.   So, um. What to say about this book?I think that you should go into this as blindly as possible. Let's just say this is a ~dark academia ~ story (God, I hate that term) about a clique, with paranormal elements, clearly inspired by The Craft/ Heathers/ Mean Girls, which was somehow both deliciously dark, but also funny at times. Every single thing in the book, from the characters to the setting, is believable, and I know this is ironic in a story with paranormal elements, but I said what I said. The book may have some paranormal elements, but it's still grounded in reality, thus subjected to realism-checks, and it checks out in my opinion.Mona Awad clearly has a talent for writing. I think the most solid thing about the book is her being able to write in a variety of different "voices" and almost genre-hop (bunnies hop, geddit??) at the drop of a hat. She's very passionate in paying tribute to media she obviously likes, like the ones I mentioned above, and manages to make it all her own without anything being an outright ripoff (I'm looking at you, Wilder Girls)Another comparison I can make is to The Furies; "Bunny" did what "The Furies" was trying, and failed, to do. I know it's not nice to pit two unrelated books against each other, but it's impossible not to make a connection, the books are the same thematically and structurally. "The Furies" was, in the end, a "Good girl gone bad" story without much nuance or subtlety, with underdeveloped characters and irritatingly vague elements (even though the potential is all there), while "Bunny" is a lot more controlled and careful in its plot, writing, character handling, and of course the paranormal elements. I don't want to say any more about it, like I said you should be going into it without knowing much.The one thing I disliked about the book was the bit when Samantha is completely absorbed into the Bunny hivemind, keeps referring to herself as "we", and only concerned about mini cupcakes or whatever. She was drugged then, and spiralling hard, but I found that bit kind of predictable and annoying, of course she was going to snap out of it sooner or later, she's the POV character.This review is SUPER scatterbrained and doesn't make much sense at all. To sum up: I liked the book. Period.  Oh Bunny. I think it’s really more of a 3.5 star book. But I feel like I just tripped on acid so hard someone tied me up and locked me in a closet to save me from myself and I had one weird fucking trip down the rabbit hole, alone in that primordial darkness.But I like to think I also kind of get it? I think it was noted in the blurb that it was about the female experience and the power of the imagination, but to me it read like an allegory for the creative process, especially during grad school.You know, and a bad acid trip. Bunny.  excuse me what the fuck? !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I thought The Pisces was going to be the weirdest book I read all year. And then Bunny walked into the room like “Heeeeeeyyy.” Bunny is like a mishmash of Mean Girls, horror, body horror, fantasy, supernatural, coming-of-age, fairy-tale, and a more deranged adult version of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory if it took place at a liberal arts college. A candy-colored world with a stench of rot lurking beneath the surface. Sinister mentions of cake, cupcakes, muffin mix, frosting, sprinkles, cookies, cookie butter (did not know this was a thing), cinnamon, and mulled wine. Plus, haunting imagery of all types of animals. Sidenote: I can picture readers suddenly developing a phobia of bunnies. I’m kidding, I think.MFA student Samantha is repulsed yet fascinated with her fellow Workshop students: four young women who refer to one another as Bunny, who talk in little girl voice inflections, and are seemingly joined at the hip. Samantha is an interloper, but eventually gets caught up in their infectious world. It is impossible to predict where this narrative is heading. It’s consistently surprising, intriguing, weird, and well, absurd. Every character is extreme. Even characters like the comically clueless Jonah will occasionally say the most off-the-wall / hair-raising comment. Because of its excessiveness, I wondered if Bunny was going to eventually cave in on itself, but it more than delivers on its bonkers premise. Bunny pokes pun at the ridiculous lengths artists take in nurturing their art. It takes a playful stab at the elitism of liberal arts institutions. It dissects the idea of faux feminism. And especially through the character of Samantha, we see how isolating and insular being an artist can truly be, and how alienating when it comes to one’s relationship with others. Samantha is a lonely person, and the delicious fun is discovering just why that is. Bunny Bunny Bunny Bunny Bunny Bunny. I’m sure this word was mentioned more than 200 times. Annoying, you ask. Trust me, it’s all part of Bunny’s charm.https://www.instagram.com/p/BzBTfCzgM...  Per parlare di questo romanzo userò la metafora più trita e ritrita di sempre però, devo ammettere, è quella più congeniale ossia un giro sulle montagne russe. Mi spiego meglio: una prima parte incerta, che quasi mi stava spingendo ad abbandonare la lettura ma che raggiunge, finalmente, il tanto agognato picco nella seconda parte. Lì avviene un cambio di registro pazzesco che mi fa andare in visibilio, lo stile dell’autrice si fa via via sempre più fortemente allucinatorio e quasi psichedelico, si sperimenta sulla pelle la dissociazione della personalità di queste ragazze che – tra outfit alla moda, stucchevoli smancerie e risate civettuole - sembrano sì fatte con lo stampino, ma nascondono un lato “oscuro”. Credevo davvero fossimo entrati in pieno ritmo e questo, in effetti, si mantiene abbastanza stabile per un po', ci sono tutti gli elementi che cercavo: azione, suspense, inquietudine, delirio ma… Ho cantato vittoria troppo presto. Ecco che poi ricomincia la parabola discendente, anche se c'è un plot-twist interessante non riesce comunque a risollevare le sorti del finale. Perché tutto quel crescendo di sensazioni non ha un vero culmine, tralasciando la svolta di cui vi accennavo poc’anzi, va a scemare piano piano e ad arenarsi in un nulla di fatto. Pertanto, per questa narrazione così altalenante e le troppe domande che restano appese, non mi sento di dare un voto più alto della sufficienza. Tuttavia, lo consiglio a chi sta cercando una lettura bizzarra con contaminazioni weird e capace di intrattenere.  okay so.. this book completely confused me but I loved it and also disliked some parts of it too. From the first chapter I found myself really enjoying this book, I thought some parts were funny and the girl group in this book were giving me heathers/mean girl vibes. I personally think that Sam made up alot of the things that happened in this book, in her head.. I got the feeling that most things weren't real, especially the ending of the book. I think this book is going to stick with me for a while, I finished this book earlier today and I'm still thinking about it. This book is listed as a horror book and I didn't particularly find it scary but it does have some bloody scenes.I will have to give this another read and I reckon you should give this book a chance and at least read it once.I loved the first half of this book alot and it was so enjoyable to read. I couldn't stop reading it, the writing style was great and just flowed easily for me, I didn't find myself bored or pushing myself to finish it, I just read it within one day.So yeah.. like I said above, I loved this book and I am giving it four stars. ⭐⭐⭐⭐ | Four stars.Nikki | Sugarvogue.•https://linktr.ee/Sugarvogue•nikkisugarvogue@gmail.com•https://sugarvoguenikki.blogspot.com/  I really wanted to like this book but Heathers it ain't. The amount of time and detail spent describing and re-describing and re-re-describing the Bunnies' fashion and hair and voices is monotonous as fuck. Really pissy spoilers begin here: The spellcraft is never explained in anything more than a hand wave. The pointed discussion of class and money is only mentioned when convenient to make Samantha seem an outsider; her stipend is never mentioned during the two months when she's under the Bunny spell even though I assume she still had to pay rent. The interlude with Ursula (bear) and the Lion as bunnies is never explained and I'm still annoyed that I bothered to finish listening to this fucking book. There were some excellent bits of writing hiding in here but they were stuck in embodying the exact shittiness of MFA programs while trying to skewer said program.The audiobook narrator was really good and pitch perfect with how annoying the bunnies were (so much so that I went up 1 star) but she should be fired into the sun for how bad her attempt at a Scottish brogue was.   This book is Mean Girls on acid. It's The Secret History, hot pink, doused in lemon cake scented perfume, and covered in blood. It's the book Kristen Roupenian wishes she wrote. I absolutely devoured Bunny over the last few days. It's a dark and sparkly fever dream, one I'm still not sure I've woken up from. Mona Awad has created a story that is likely to be polarizing. It's easily hateable, for someone who dislikes consistent discomfort and horrible people in a narrative. Thankfully, it's my favorite thing.   "That's the beauty of being friends with us, Bunny.""There don't have to be words sometimes."You could text us a whale tomorrow afternoon and we'd be like, We know. We'd know exactly what it is you were feeling." 🐋.I picked up Bunny at the library yesterday and read it in one sitting! Bunny is a darkly comic novel that reminded me of Clueless mixed with Heather's with a hint of Stepford Wives. I laughed, I cringed and I rolled my eyes, but I loved it!Equally creepy and entertaining! I want all my friends to read Bunny! . ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐/ 5 one of my favorite books I've read this year!! . 👹🌷👻.  I guess this is what you get when a B-Horror film is produced by an MFA program? That’s how Bunny reads for the majority of its pages and, really, I’m glad Mona Awad had the courage to write something so over-the-top ridiculous. I chuckled at least as much as I rolled my eyes. That’s a good thing! I would also say the less you know about Bunny going in, the better. Things get very strange, very quickly, and it would be a disservice to any reader to spoil the fun. Just keep in mind it’s a highbrow vision of something like Scream Queens (which was a criminally underrated little show) and you’ll be just fine.   Whatever you think this book's plot is, you're probably wrong. Sometimes I was scratching my head trying to understand what was happening, but in a good way. This book was crazy. And I hope you like the word Bunny- the main characters call each other it; there are actual bunnies, and yes just a lot of bunnies.This was a really well told novel, just slightly annoying at times for the personality of the main characters and the dialogue used by said main characters. But this book is definitely trippy.  One of the strangest books I ever read, but Margaret Atwood recommended it so who am I to question the master's word. As difficult as this was to follow and understand, it was well written and enthralling. I had absolutely no idea what was going to happen next, but hints abounded.Didn't love it, but for Margaret I'll give it 3.5 stars as I made it to the very end. Thanks Randwick Library for having it on ebook to borrow.  it’s been weeks and i still can’t properly put into words how much i love this book. the setting, the characters, the story line, ITS ALL SO GOOD. i highly recommend this if you are interested and know what you’re getting into.  🌷 👻 wtf Bleeecch! I gave this a fair shot. Read quite a bit of it. Couldn't stand it.  RTC.. I am in awe. I need about 50 years to collect my emotions upon finishing this.. wow.  like the secret history but less fun and not interesting at all This book is a goddamn masterpiece.2022 reread: I repeat, this book is a goddamn masterpiece.  yes i had to look up the overall meaning of this book ‼️ no i am not dumb‼️ I need to come back to configure my thoughts…but I think I liked it? 😂 what the fuck. bunny you’re sooo brilliant xxx acıtasyon ve pasiflik biraz da samanthanın olayıydı ama bu kadar da korkuluk olunmaz ya assldkfj fena değildi yine olsa okurum, olaylar hoşuma gitti Dieses Buch stand seit Ewigkeiten auf meiner Wunschliste, und als es dann im Buchclub als neue Lektüre vorgeschlagen wurde, wusste ich sofort, dass ich dafür stimmen würde. Und es hat tatsächlich die meisten Stimmen gesammelt, also habe ich es sofort gekauft und jetzt über eine Woche vor der Endbesprechung bereits beendet. Was nicht so oft vorkommt, öfters passiert es, dass ich es nicht zu Ende lese, leider."Bunny" habe ich aber in einem Rutsch gelesen. Es geht hier um Samantha, die an der Universität Kreatives Schreiben studiert. Wie das bei solchen Studiengängen schnell mal passiert, hat auch sie nur vier Studienkolleginnen. Die "Bunnies", wie sie sich nennen, haben eigentlich direkt nach dem Studienbeginn eine Clique gegründet und Samantha ist leider kein Teil davon. Zumindest bis jetzt, denn plötzlich erhält sie eine Einladung zum "Smut Salon", einer Veranstaltung der Bunnies. Und damit beginnt sie, immer tiefer ins Kaninchenloch dieser verrückten Gruppe hineinzustürzen...Was ich an diesem Buch besonders mochte, ist auch das, was ganz sicher einige bei unserer Endbesprechung kritisieren werden: Der Roman war unglaublich verwirrend. Samantha ist keine verlässliche Erzählerin und auch die anderen Figuren machen keine Aussagen, auf die wir Leser:innen uns verlassen können. Und irgendwie hat die Autorin es geschafft, das auf eine Art umzusetzen, die mich total gefesselt hat. Nach den ersten hundert Seiten wollte ich den Roman nicht mehr weglegen. Ich musste das Buch immer wieder mal zuklappen, weil manche der Plottwists meinen Kopf überfordert haben und ich mir die verschiedensten Theorien zusammengesponnen habe, aber eigentlich wollte ich einfach die Nacht durchlesen.Besonders überraschend war für mich, dass ich diesen Roman wirklich gruselig fand. Klar, hinten im Klappentext steht, dass das "Fairytale Horror" ist, aber aufgrund des süßen Covers und des eher zahmen Beginns hatte ich nicht damit gerechnet, wie verrückt die Geschichte später wird. Oft sind es gar nicht die Dinge, die passieren, sondern die Art, wie sie beschrieben wurden, die mir einen Schauer über den Rücken jagten. Dieser Schreibstil hat mich zutiefst beeindruckt, wie ihr vielleicht merkt.Mein Fazit? Ein großartiger, unglaublich gruseliger Roman.  Reading this book felt like slowly walking through a nightmarish haze and the fact that I can’t 100% tell which scenes were real and which ones were dreamscapes from hell says a lot. In doing my absolute best to simplify this fever dream plot, a college student on the cusp of graduating develops a new relationship with a particular group of young women in her writing workshops named The Bunnies. Our narrator has hated The Bunnies from a distance as an outsider, but a single invitation to a late-night gathering changes how she views these women forever. Things explode. Reality gets questioned. Terrible, horrible things are done in the name of art and sisterhood. This was so much. I loved it. CW: animal cruelty, murder, blood, gore, violence, death, grief, sexual content, mentions of rape, brief reference to eating disorder, dated language referencing Romani people  ”the night is a waterfall of music and lights. the night is a rabbit hole into which we enter, hand in mesh hand. the night is a dark earth I could dig my hands into forever. the night becomes a page of literature that I would, at sixteen, press against my heart.”photo credit: 1, 2, 3, 4 bunny is a hard story to discuss, it is about this MFA program and these group of girls called ‘the bunnies’ that coo at each other, hug each other to the point that they might explode and participate in something called ‘the smut salon’, yes. and the novel kicks off once our main character gets invited into one of these gatherings and learns of the weird and sinister things that happens behind the bunnies’ closed doors, yes. and yes, it’s bizarre, weird, satirical, reminiscent of heathers or a horror version of a fairytale, but it’s also so much more.ultimately the story is exploring sadness, loneliness and mental illness and while it was an absurd and fun ride at times, it was also deeply, deeply sad at other times. the ending line of the synopsis explains it perfectly: “bunny is a down-the-rabbit-hole tale of loneliness and belonging, friendship and desire, and the fantastic and terrible power of the imagination.”it is a book that contains a multitude of tones and themes in all of its different sections which makes it hard to discuss things like the writing for example, because it’s different at different points in the story. so discussing the novel requires discussing these different sections of the story, but that could also easily get into a spoilery territory.so if you want to go into this book without knowing too much about it, which I did and would generally recommend, perhaps this review isn’t for you. but I’ll try to be as vague as possible while still properly articulating my thoughts.”we were just these innocent girls in the night trying to make something beautiful. we nearly died.”I loved the beginning of the novel, it is filled with rich descriptions that feel almost pretentious at times, but it was great, I just wanted to underline entire pages because I loved it so much. it was also quite cynical in its tone which is something I thoroughly enjoy reading and that I relate to. one of the highlights of the beginning as well was ava and samantha’s friendship, I loved ava and very much related to the way samantha was describing her and their way of interacting in general. the novel was also filled with little anecdotes about their friendship that were so casually mentioned that it made them truly feel like real people that existed outside of this story which was great, especially because other characters in the story were so over the top. as the novel progresses the tone and writing changes a lot and a lot of it starts feeling like a fever dream. some parts were filled with descriptions that kept getting weirder and weirder to the point that it almost felt claustrophobic to read, and at times it was exhausting reading from certain perspectives. which I think really shows just how competent mona awad is with her writing, she really succeeds with making you feel what she wants you too.other parts also felt like a fever dream but in a different way, they were unsettling, confusing and you didn’t know what was real and what was not. and a lot of it was just sad, sad, sad.”the way she says alone makes it sound like a cave. like some hideous, dark cave whose oozing walls are teeming with all the unpleasant things of this world, and I am crawling willingly, brazenly, into this awful space of my own free will. shoveling the vermin I find scuttling across the floor into my mouth for sustenance.I tell her no, of course not. not alone. but her smile says how easily she has punctured my sad girl lie.”I loved samantha as a main character a lot, I very much connected to her, partly because she reminds me a lot of myself and also because she was so well written. I related to her feelings of loneliness and her insecurities a lot. it might sound weird, but this fairytale horror novel really made me feel seen.I still don’t really know if I enjoyed this book, it doesn’t really feel like a book that you’re necessarily supposed to have a good time reading, but it’s definitely a book that makes you think and it did make me think. and it absolutely absorbed and engaged me, I didn’t want to stop reading every time I picked the book back up and I didn’t want it to be over when it was. I still don’t feel like I fully understand the book, but I think that’s the point. I guess that warrants 5 stars? I still don’t really know, all I know is that I can’t stop thinking about it and that I think it did everything it tried to do perfectly.read for the newt’s magical readathon 2020: charms A  I need time to process this one... 🤕🤯😳 I have no idea what I just read but I love it edit: these college girls are wild (said by actual college girl). i don’t know what else i could say about this book that hasn’t been said. despite my high rating, i don’t think this book is for everyone. i also didn’t know bunny was such a popular book in tiktok, i just got it because it was pink. Omg. Honestly it was so weird but also genius? I loveeeed the idea. 3.5 stars! "What the heck" was my reaction to so much of what was going on in this novel, because it was really bizarre. At first it was delightfully bizarre for me. Where its strangeness started to go from amusing and thought-provoking to straight-up confusing and frustrating was where my feelings to the book changed.I love Mona Awad's writing; she's clearly a very talented wordsmith and humorous. I knew I wanted to read this book when I learned that it is a horror story set in a prestigious MFA program at an elite university, where a student from a poor background named Samantha gets sucked into a sinister cult of four rich young women who all call each other "Bunny." I usually stay away from horror, but I was drawn to the fantastical and psychological bent that I gathered from the book's blurb. There's a lot of satire about the MFA and creative writing in general - the Process of creating the Work, making it Perform the Body - and that was hilarious. I could relate to it even though I have never been in an MFA, but based on my experience as an English Literature undergrad.I tore through the first half or so of the book and felt it really could be a 5-star read. But after a climactic moment about halfway through, the pace slowed down and I started losing the direction of the plot, getting unsure where the story was going. And then I started getting really confused what was even happening. Finally there was a revelation that made me realise I need to completely rethink how I interpreted all the fantastical things about the Bunny cult that I've read so far. Even now, after finishing the book, I'm still confused about what happened. Okay, for those who have read this book, if you'd like to help me make sense of things, here are my questions (brace yourselves, there are a lot). I'm think I'm pretty sure now that it was all imagined, none of it was real? It was all a getting-carried-away-with-your-imagination thing? But how come all the Bunnies plus Samantha imagined the same things? How come Eleanor, Caroline, Victoria and Kira could all "see" Ava and Max if those two were just Samantha's imagination? Were there ever even real animals in the scene, the bunnies and the swan? Or were they imagined too? What's up with Lion and Fosco, are they in on the Bunny thing, or were the ones who tied Samantha up a fake-Lion and fake-Fosco? And what about all the talks of violence and decapitations at the school? I thought they were linked to the Bunnies and what they were doing, but if none of those stuff were real, was there no actual violence in the area too?In the end, for me the book became more Fight Club meets A Beautiful Mind, than Heathers meets Scream Queens, as critics have described it. I enjoyed the cleverness of the whole idea, and the writing really was superb, vivid and incisive. If things were tied up a bit more clearly, I would have liked the book more. I think the author wanted it to be a bit disorienting and ambiguous, to set up twists that make you go back to earlier parts of the book and go "aah so that's what really was happening." And in many other books I enjoyed that, but I don't know, here it confused more than impressed me. I also probably went into the book with some expectations and assumptions of what it'd be about - more Chilling Adventures of Sabrina dark magic and less meta-commentary (like another reviewer said) - so I was thrown off. Still, I would definitely want to check out other books that Mona Awad wrote and will write in the future.Thank you to Times Distribution for sending me a copy of the novel in exchange for an honest review.  Bunny, you’re just so brilliant and dark and elegant, like a glass of gin and dubonnet.Oh my gosh Bunny, that’s, like, the best compliment I’ve ever heard.No, really, Bunny, I was really impressed by your writing style – so distinct and oozing with tangible descriptions and gritty metaphors; somehow, Bunny, you managed to intertwine such a contemporary, 21st century voice with a classical atmosphere and style of poetic prose. Like a modern gothic satire. Bunny, stop!!! You're one to talk. No, really, everyone says that you make no sense and of course, you do establish this absurd, surreal vibe to your themes and plot and all the characters, but everything is just super symbolic and I really admire that aspect of your work, Bunny. I thought that although it did feel like this super disorienting nightmare-and-dream crossover, as the story progressed and even got more absurd, things did end up becoming clearer, from a symbolic and thematic perspective. I thought it was very unique and I would love to see more originality like yours in modern literature! Oh, Bunny, originality?! You flatter me. Yea, Bunny, I thought the changes in Samantha’s inner monologue during some parts of the story were extremely smooth and I loved how immersive it was, as though we were losing our minds with her! Yea, honestly Bunny, I did sort of think that was pretty genius So genius. Your writing is beautiful and in the beginning, I was honestly sort of skeptical. I thought the story and writing and characters would get cheesy fast, and when I saw the modern voice I was a bit weary because in my experience, that voice is used as an excuse for writers to be lazy. But I was pleasantly surprised! You were so unpretentious. I found your commentary about academia and creativity very interesting and am still pondering what I thought you seemed to be saying about the dangers of closely intertwining life and art as artists and how isolating it is, keeping your own imagination as your closest companion. What I'm trying to say, Bunny, is that you were really freaky in all the right ways. You made me want to be more creative with my own writing and plot devices and I feel really inspired by you! Awwww thanks Bunny. Would you like to come to a party this weekend, Bunny? I think that you’ve proven yourself worthy :)  Hmmmmmmmmm you know, Bunny. I think I’m going to pass."We never joke about bunnies, Bunny."  Well, this was er... bizarre as shit? So basically take The Craft but make it a pastel aesthetic.I won't even attempt to summarise the plot because the wtf moments are part of its charm. I'm reluctant to say that I enjoyed this story because I'm not sure I did per se, but I definitely appreciate Awad's let's go with unconventional approach to story telling. Like damn girl I don't know what you're on, but tell me so I can stay well clear of it. Your nightmares must be something else.This whole reading experience felt like a fever dream. The writing made me feel ✨uncomfy✨ At the same time though hats off to you Awad, strong points for originality &amp; imagination because I've never read such bizarre backward metaphorical descriptions that somehow still make sense?? Like the fact that this book is on both my 'unforgettable' and 'meh-mediocre' shelves should tell you everything about how juxtaposing this experience was. I feel very unsure of myself. Might need some time to recuperate some brain cells from this one.  It's complicated... I really enjoyed certain sections of the book, but certain characters/plot lines felt undercooked (Samanthas' romantic feelings for Ava felt like a last minute addition, under-explored and underdeveloped, I'm still confused about Lions' role in the story). What I enjoyed about the book, I absolutely loved - the dynamic of the 'Bunnies' was entertaining and took me straight back to my experience during High School. Overall, I would recommend 'Bunny'. It was a very entertaining and once the plot started to develop, it became a pulsating, exciting and quick read. However, there are some aspects of the story that leave me scratching my head.   DNF @ 61%.This was... not good. I picked this up after hearing it lauded by so many as being a reimagining of Heathers/Mean Girls/The Craft with a horror twist. Camp, satirical horror? Count me in!But this just didn't work for me. The writing leaves an awful lot to be desired. The tone was all over the place, and there were so many bad mixed metaphors. I get that Awad was trying to confuse the reader and to obfuscate events with having such an unreliable narrator, thus leaving a lot up to interpretation. But that only works for me if I enjoy the writing, which I didn't.It's a real shame, because I picked this up because I was in the ideal mood to read a horror story.I will definitely have to find different sources for thriller and horror recommendations because the booktubers I follow have done nothing but lead me astray.  4 stars ｡･:*˚:✧｡ This book was...ummmm I don’t even know. This was one of the strangest books I have ever read and it makes me really want to read more strange books. The writing style was interesting and a bit of a trip as we don’t even know what’s real and what’s in the protagonists head. I loved the characters they were unreliable, I never trusted them which made everything more interesting. The plot for the first two parts was 10/10 but it fell a little flat for me in the last part. So many unanswered questions, like how did that do the things they did?!? Ava in this book helped bring things back to reality I felt myself grasping onto her for some sanity my god. Overall so fun and fasted paced I want more thoughhh  A lot of what I just read I think will take me a few weeks to get my head around- but Bunny is vividly brilliant although if you want to get any real plot details you'll have to read it for yourself because I certainly can't realistically describe it.It is a fever dream in essence, weird and so utterly compelling that it drags you along in its wake, unable to look away as it gets progressively darker, stranger and more intricate. A horror tale within a psychological drama within a literary world created just for it's own ends Bunny is probably the strangest novel I've read this year - also one of the most memorable I should think. Whatever you are expecting I doubt it'll come even close to being like that. Bunny is very much its own thing.Recommended.   This was a fever dream of a book &amp; not a very good one. It started off strong, I had high hope and was enjoying myself only for it to die off. I actually put it down and didn’t pick it back up for 2 months. I decided I was going to try again and force myself to finish it and ugh. I could barely keep up with what was going on &amp; not in a good, keeping my interest way. Just super manic, which I guess what the intent but it didn’t deliver for me. Samantha is just so incredibly unlikeable that I found myself not really caring what happened. I thought I was going to really like this book because everyone told me it’s messed up and crazy but it just didn’t deliver. The ending lacked substance and left me disappointed. Overall, unfortunately my least favourite read of the year.  I loved it. Loved how weird it is. Loved the writing most of all, especially the metaphors/similes. My takeaway from this was that it serves as commentary on how uncontrollably wild writers' imaginations can get &amp; the consequences of that, such as society deeming them as strange/mentally ill. So many famous writers like Emily Dickinson, Ernest Hemingway, Sylvia Plath, etc. have been diagnosed with mental illnesses but a lot of their hardships and strong emotions led them to create beautiful pieces of writing. I was confused throughout a lot of the book, as the majority of people who have read this seem to be, but I kind of liked being confused in a way.  having heard that this book is a cross between the secret history and heathers, i have to say that i wholeheartedly agree! words cannot describe how completely crazy this book is. all i know it that i loved it! the past 8 hours that i have spent reading this book have honestly left me in a dreamlike state that is weirdly unsettling. bunny is filled with such darkness and menace that is disguised by an intoxicatingly sweet coating, much like the bunnies themselves. this has proven to be probably the most immersive book that i have read to date.  I still don’t know what was going on. I love a weird and wonderful story as much as the best of them but this one was taking the biscuit. It started off really good and I thought this is going to be epic… but then it teetered off into the fricking twilight zone and I had no real clue what was happening. I was constantly waiting for the ‘big reveal’ and then when it came… I was still left as underwhelmed and confused as ever. I guess it just wasn’t my cup of tea… but each to their own.  I doubt I’ll ever able to understand the messages this book is trying to impart, or the undertones, but the writing was really great and I couldn’t stop reading? Don’t ask me to tell you the theme of this book because I’ll probably just start eating your corsage with a blank look on my face, okay Bunny? 👻🌷  My partner loved this book. Called it “Quirky”. We might break up soon? I prefer my literary eccentricity (all eccentricity, for that matter) to feel more organic. Weird for the sake of being weird has always made my jaw clench in irritation. What a deeply disappointing departure from 13 Ways of Looking at a Fat Girl.  This is like Mean Girls meets Frankenstein, written in the style of David Lynch, filtered heavily through acid. I don't have a high tolerance for weird fiction, especially not weird fiction that is as meta about crafting art as this one is. To go a step further and be very candid, I hated most of this reading experience and could not wait for it to be over.  Una storia assurda, un continuo "ma cosa straca**o ho appena letto", una prosa che sa di zucchero filato all'arsenico. E mi vien da dire che i bei meesaggi, a volte, si trovano nei libri più insospettabili. Ne riparliamo presto sul mio IG https://www.instagram.com/sonosololibri/ This book is bananas! I have never read a more random book. I mean, I it has its great moments, but it's not super coherent. I do love that it's set in a writing workshop and some of the inside jokes.  Bruh...  Honestly what just happened. But I like it.  My brain is fucked after this. that's nice *gunshot* This would’ve been an easy 5 star rating had it had some sort of explanation for all the fuckery but alas, I’m still befuzzled. I was just bored, man. Wtf did I just read tho  while i enjoyed the writing and the themes and the overall what-the-fuck-ery of this book, it realllllly dragged for me during the last third or so. This book was like a fever dream. Darkly comedic, freaky, artistic. I couldn't get into the writing style but the plot was definitely unique and interesting. This is the weirdest book I’ve ever read, I loved it though. 🐰 hahaha what the fuck I didn't understand a single word from the book like what was that I'm really considering throwing this book out of the window Me throughout the whole bookThere were chunks in here that could've been deleted and nothing would change. I skipped (and slept) over a couple chapters and honestly I don't think I missed a single thing.It was interesting and I liked the Bunnies, thank god there weren't many of them or I would've been lost! Creepy Doll is my favourite btw.I guess weird dark academia is not for me. Bunny put me in a big reading slump.  Étrange n’est pas un mot assez fort pour exprimer ce qu’est ce livre.C’est un mélange entre réalité et délire. On ne sait pas ce qui est vrai de ce qui ne l’est pas du début à la fin. Des tas de choses inconcevables se passent sans explication. L’horreur est présent et dans une perspective fantastique. La thématique sectaire est là, mais ce n’est pas dans une formation «&nbsp;typique&nbsp;». On ne comprend pas du tout qui tire les ficelles de tout ça. C’est weird ahaha! 🙈😅  i'm sleep deprived and trying to counter it with arguably too much caffeine so my sense of reality is already a bit skewed and my brain capacity is basically at zero but what even was this book ????????????????? this was such a bizarre fever dream and i loved every moment omg  need to think. fever dream on paper 4.5 // so so good + read it so quicklynot sure what was real and what wasn't 4.5 If The Secret History had a wicked weird ass sparkly coke snorting cousin it would be Bunny. Could’ve been 5 stars but I disliked the ending sadly 🤕strange fucking novel lemme tell you What the fuck did I just read. not bad for a book with furries in it!!  “The real world lady, it's out there. Do you even know that? You're going to have to get back to it sometime.”   I read it for Summerween'22   ; for the prompt: Read a book with Halloween colors on the cover .This book is super strange, weird &amp; satirical.Yk how there are books that got you, "wtf is going on here" but in a good kind of a way? This one tops that genre. This book will either encourage you to join some cult and explore or make you hate cults to your core. It may get you "What did I just read?" and confuse you but in a tremendous way.The story follows Samantha, a grad student at an Ivy League School. She somehow feels unfit here whereas her four workshop partners have established an impenetrable clique. They address themselves the Bunnies, and their interactions are peppered with vows of love, hackneyed Instagram-hashtag phrases, and sycophantic praise on the genius and uniqueness of one another's work. Samantha finds it disgusting from the sidelines, despite her great jealousy. The Bunnies are doing a hideous mime act as simpering sorority sisters, their cutesy, indulgent attitudes stretched to such extremities that they breach the line into horror, as seen through Samantha's eyes. When Samantha is eventually invited to join the group, she realizes just how far and deep that terror extends.ps. I believe whoever says they didn't like the book- actually wasn't in a good headspace to grasp what was going on. I don't blame them, the story can get confusing but it's a blast!  THIS BOOK WAS A FEVER DREAM IN THE BEST WAY POSSIBLE Sure to be high on my "faves read in 2020" list... Oh my GOD. What a surreal, disturbing, lipgloss-sticky nightmare this was. How GORGEOUS was it??? The writing; oh my God. I think I highlighted half this book. I'm a sucker for purple prose and snarky dialogue, and I won't apologize for it. I don't really care for dark acadamia as a subgenre. Something about it rubs me the wrong way... Maybe it's all the wallowing in academic elitism/classcism; the inherently conservative politics of Old Money, and the desire to keep it in (white, male) hands? If so... Giving the sub-genre a very femme and very saphic spin really worked in its favor. (And it doesn't hurt that the protag is broke and can't mooch off her parents (cough- If We Were Villians) and she never really idolizes the idle elite that are her peers (cough- The Secret History). And she actually IS smart and talented (cough- Ninth House); this is grad school, after all. All her comentary came with a heavy spoonful of salt and self-awareness to make the medicine go down. It's hard to describe what this book is ABOUT, because it's fast-paced and very shocking, and to take away the twists and turns would lessen the enjoyment of reading it. Instead, I'm going to barrage you with gifs from movies (mostly indie horror movies) that evoke a similar vibe. Because really, dark acadamia is ALL about the #aesthetic, is it not?           (In order from top to bottom: Final Girl 2015, Black Swan 2010, Neon Demon 2016, It Follows 2015, Ginger Snaps 2000, Raw 2017, Mean Girls 2004, The Craft 1996, Jennifer's Body 2009, Starry Eyes 2014.)  I don’t think I have ever struggled putting my thoughts into words before this badly, I’m sitting here marinating and the only thing that comes to my head is.. “what the fuck?” Bunny is absolutely absurd, bizarre and transfixing, I couldn’t stop reading, my brain imploded whilst reading multiple times. The language? Oh how I love the power of words, Mona Awad really did THAT. Anyways, read the book, seriously. It’s great.   4.5🌟 As soon as I finished this book I thought, “What one earth did I just read?” 😂. My jaw was on the floor a huge portion of this book, but I was vibing with it and finished it in only a couple of sittings. This book was so unhinged, I absolutely loved it. This is not a book I think everyone would necessarily enjoy, but if you’re into cults, dark academia, social commentary, and literary fiction with a horror spin than this one is for you! I took off half a star because I really had to go back and dissect so much of the book to make sure I really got everything. I feel like I could write a thesis paper on this book truly. To me this was incredibly memorable and packed a punch as a book that I’ll continue to think about for a long time!  4.25 out of 5Definitely one of the weirdest books I’ve ever read. I could see this as a Black Mirror episode or a trippy, cult-classic 80s movie. I don’t even know where to begin talking about it because there was so much happening, especially towards the end.This is definitely dark academia/psychological horror/magical realism packed all into one. The horror elements were handled in a very creative way. I really liked how Awad used hyper-cuteness as something sinister and even weaponized it. It was brilliant. It explored in a satirical manner themes of gender expression, academia, and horror. With each passing chapter, the story got more bizarre and chilling. I had no idea where it was going and I loved it for that! By the time I got to the final part, I was so anxious to find out how it’ll all end. The climax is definitely one I will remember for a very long time. It was just...wild, in every good way possible.I will say that sometimes it was really difficult to tell what was real or if everything was just in the main character’s head. While I do think this was done almost intentionally as to build the atmosphere, I had difficulty to concentrate and immersing myself in the book. Sometimes I would catch myself just reading the words and not paying attention to what it said, so I would have to go back and re-read it again. This is not to deny that the writing was beautiful and well-structured. Awad is able to describe things so vividly with a very interesting flair of originality.I want to say the best way to go into this book is completely blind! The synopsis gives enough to hook you so don’t read anything beyond that. I accidentally spoiled myself for one of the biggest reveals while watching a “non-spoiler” review on YouTube and regret it. I would have enjoyed the reveal so much more if I hadn’t known prior. But overall, this was such an interesting reading experience and one I won’t forget. I already had an aversion towards bunnies, and now after reading this book, I would stay far, far away from them. Lol.  Whoa, okay, how does one even review this book? I loved it. I want to read it again. I also want someone to take me by the hand and slowly explain everything that happened because I have a lot of questions, but maybe there simply are no answers for a book like this? I do, however, know that I loved Mona Awad's writing. The crazy, witty, dark humor lured me in and I couldn't stop reading once I hit the halfway point. It's really hard to talk about the book without giving much away, but I think I will spend some time dissecting what the heck happened for sure. Honestly, this type of book is just the kind of crazy I wish I could write. Awad's sense of the characters, the language, and gritty humor were perfection. And as someone who went through a genre MFA program, I laughed my head off seeing some of the cliches you 100% see in a lit program (I loved my MFA program, btw, but there are always people that act more like caricatures than real humans in these programs, so the whole Bunny clique felt real to me in some scary ways.)Though I have many questions left after reading the book, I think it will be fun to discuss those questions with others and try to figure out what may or may not have happened here. All I can really say is buckle up and give this book a read. I want to read everything Away creates now. Also, I did read last year that this book's rights were sold for TV adaptation, and I really hope that happens! I'd love to see if they could capture this perfect madness on film.  5⭐️; Audiobook; Paranormal/Satire; “Unlike my street, which smells of sad man piss, hers smells of autumn leaves”🍁God I truly love this book! Bunny is the reason I will forever read anything Awad puts out - I’d even read her grocery list.&amp; I love that Mona Awad is a fellow Canadian!The main character, Sam, is an outcast in her creative writing course, but everything changes when she is unexpectedly invited to a secret writing workshop called "Smut Salon" run by a group of pixie-stix snorting girls, who refer to each other as Bunny. The workshop is a riot of creativity and Awad's signature satire style truly shines as the story takes a dark and unexpected turn. But what happens at Bunny “workshop” late at night?🐇This is where things start to get wild and Awads signature satire style really shines. Will there be real bunnies? Yes🐇 (TW?)Are you going to be calling everyone Bunny by the end? AbsolutelyIt’s going to be weird. Roll with it, EMBRACE it. Let it wash over you like maple syrup.  I have a headache, but this was brilliant. Very satisfying. Samantha is a graduate student in a MFA program at a prestigious Rhode Island college. She is plagued by writers block and by four colleagues, the self professed "Bunnies" (You're so cute Bunny! No, you are!) who write insipid, erotic fiction. Samantha loathes the Bunnies but is also strangely drawn to to them. When she is finally invited to join the Bunnies' clique, she falls down a crazy, disturbing rabbit hole (pun intended) involving magic and a lot of blood and guts. Animal lovers, beware.A lot of the book is over the top perhaps and I caught the twist pretty early, but otherwise I found it wonderfully surreal and horrific. And funny. A lot of the writing is super sharp, which I appreciated. I loved Samantha's voice."...[a] single room on the west side, which I really thought was just fine even though it didn’t quite pass my suicide visualization test. Could I picture shooting myself here? Definitely I could. Hanging myself? Sure. Some nights, I could even see the noose swinging from the light fixture on the ceiling." "I look at all of my dreams and nightmares distilled into one man-shaped shape. All the love and hate I have in my heart plus one fucking bunny."  3.5 StarsThe night became a page of literature that I would, at sixteen, press against my heartwell, this book was definitely something! it's unlike anything i've ever read, and i really appreciated that aspect. the writing style was very interesting and unique and i also loved it for that. it was a bit of a slow start for me, but once the plot started speeding up, i couldn't put the book down. i really enjoyed the ending and the whole concept of the book, but i wasn't really wowed by the way that the plot was executed itself. i feel like there are certain things that would've made the book better. i was confused by who the bunnies each were and i wish i had more time to figure each one of them out because they seemed like such complex characters (even though i know the point was that they were all supposed to blend into one bunny). i really enjoyed reading from samantha's pov and i thought she was a really interesting character. overall, i definitely recommend if you're looking for something different.  i think i would've loved it more if there was a romance explored between samantha and ava. i was also confused by the little thing samantha had w/ the lion?? what was that  Let me begin by saying, Mona Awad's writing is some of the best I've read in a LONG time. She truly has a way with words. I kept thinking to myself, "ooh, that's such a good line or description." She knew just when to use names vs nicknames, and how to make the narrators decent to and ascent from madness evident in the writing. As for this story, I literally do not know what just happened. I get it, but I also don't, you know? I could tell you exactly what happened in this book but every line would still end with a question mark. When people describe this book as weird they're 100% on the nose... there are no other words for it. Maybe bizarre? On the one hand, I feel like I hated this book so much, but on the other hand, I couldn't stop reading it. It was repulsive in the sense that I couldn't look away, but the confusion and the repulsiveness are not necessarily mutually exclusive with bad? I think I left the book with the exact feeling Awad probably wants her readers to feel, although I'm not sure what the feeling exactly is. As I closed this book I literally sputtered while my hands gesticulated in confusion because I DON'T EVEN KNOW. I don't think I can rate this book, at least not right away. It needs to simmer in my mind a while.  Ce livre est sans aucun doute l’un des livres les plus étrange que j’ai lu dans ma vie.On y suit, Samantha, une étudiante solitaire, qui accepte de se joindre à une soirée salace organiser par les filles de son atelier d’écriture. Une décision qui la plongera tête première dans l’univers déjanté des lapins et qui changera sa vie à tout jamais. Pour être honnête, ce livre aurait pu être un coup de coeur s’il n’avait pas été aussi inégal. Certains chapitres étaient captivants voir même addictif mais d’autres étaient terriblement ennuyeux. Le récit était parfois répétitif. J’ai lu le mot Lapin si souvent que j’en suis encore étourdie. Je suis saturé des lapins. Bien que J’ai aimé la grande majorité des personnages, je n’ai pas réussi à m’attacher à eux. Ils manquaient tous de profondeur. Ce qui est dommage puisqu’ils avaient des caractéristiques et des personnalités terriblement intéressantes.C’est une lecture qui m’a laissé perplexe. J’ai refermé le livre avec un drôle de sentiment. J’ai été déstabilisé. Ça c’est certain. Je crois sincèrement que c’est le genre de livre qu’il faut absolument lire pour s’en faire sa propre idée. 🐰  Couldn't resist.If you've ever attended a creative writing course (I haven't but have been in a writers' group for many years) then this world, its language and assumptions will be familiar to you:“Samantha, we’re at Warren. The most experimental, groundbreaking writing school in the country. This goes way beyond genre. It subverts the whole concept of genre.”“And gender narratives.”“And the patriarchy of language.”“Not to mention the whole writing medium.”“It basically fucks the writing medium, Samantha. Which is dead anyway, you know?”“Exactly. This is about the Body. Performing the Body. The Body performing in all its nuanced viscerality.”There's a lot of fun to be had in this satire, especially as it also includes a kind of Heathers/Mean Girls vibe, plus a bit of The Secret History and some bonkers Alice in Wonderland weirdness. I was enjoying it immensely up until about p250. It would have been close to 5 stars had it stopped there,but then it seemed to repeat itself and added nothing further for over a hundred pages. I rapidly lost interest and struggled to finish it off. Pleasure curtailed.  Un delirio unico, ma che delirio!Questo libro le ha tutte: i meccanismi intrisi di continuo mistero tipici del dark academia; quel miscuglio geniale tra amore e odio; un ritmo incalzante, incessante, quello giusto per stimolare chi legge e destarlo dalla sua passività; delle figure femminili a guidare la vicenda, senza troppe cerimonie o convenevoli.È difficile spiegare cos’accada di preciso, quale sia il significato sotteso degli eventi, che, dopo un terzo del romanzo, prendono una piega imprevista, dall’entità impossibile da determinare. A me piace pensare che, a modo suo, questo libro voglia parlare di chi scrive, di come, assumendosi un compito di tale portata, debba sempre stare all’erta, controllare la propria Opera e, pertanto, essere in grado di darci un taglio, quando necessario. Perché, se è la tua Opera, perfetta, priva di difetto alcuno, a prendere le redini, diviene imprevedibile, rischia di annientarti.Se volete un libro che sollevi in voi una miriade di domande, che lasci in voi stupore continuo perché ogni singolo aspetto possiede molteplici chiavi di lettura, allora “Bunny” è quello giusto.  This book is bat-shit crazy. I still don’t fully understand what I read but somehow that makes it all the more enjoyable. “Bunny” is about a woman in a prestigious masters program who becomes entangled with the mayhem caused by a cultish group of mean girls in the same creative writing program. It’s part monster novel and part witch-bitch thrill ride with prose that’s so sharp my fingers were bleeding by the time I completed this drug trip of a novel.The book will take you into the clouds with its dreamlike atmosphere before immediately dropping you back down to earth with gory descriptions and tense character reveals. It doesn’t really follow a set structure and the pacing of the story is really unique because of that.Ultimately I love books like this one. It was open ended, weird and heartfelt all at the same time. The book is about love, loss and the immense power of storytelling. I think Mona Award’s creative prowess is certainly something to aspire towards. What a treat!giving this one 5 hopping-mad stars!  Mona Awad’s follow up to her award winning debut !3 Ways of Looking at a Fat Girl is a deep dive into the surreal world of MFA writing programs. We follow Samantha Heather Mackey as she navigates an Ivy League writing program that is dominated by an elite group of young women who refer to each other as Bunny. The movie Heathers has been referred to often in discussions about this novel and it is apt. However, one must imagine the Heathers as being overeducated and gifted. As they draw Samantha into their overly intense cult-like world, the book breaks into magical realism, including lawns filled with actual bunnies. The eccentric, sometimes terrifying, plot is heightened by Awad’s own brilliant writing gifts. In an on-stage interview in Montreal, Awad stated that in writing programs one is encouraged to be both vulnerable and creative, which creates fertile ground for horror.   Il mio commento a fine lettura potrebbe essere un semplice "mah" però cercherò di argomentare un pochino meglio.La prima metà è anche più che buona, ma dalla metà in poi l'elemento per me più interessante, cioè le fantomatiche Bunny, quasi sparisce per lasciare spazio a una parte tutta incentrata sulla protagonista e l'amica Ava. Col senno di poi è una scelta che ha comunque senso ma, ragazzi, che noia!Sicuramente è un libro strano, comunque la componente weird in sé mi è piaciuta. Purtroppo non posso dire lo stesso della scrittura: l'autrice sembrerebbe fare una critica ai corsi di scrittura creativa ma lei, come molte scrittrici statunitensi piuttosto giovani, scrive proprio come chi ha frequentato un corso di scrittura creativa. Ed è uno stile che mi è abbastanza indigesto.  Bunny by Mona Awad is the most fever dream-ish of fever dream novels I've ever read. I swear, I felt almost intoxicated while reading this. I actually listened to the last 60% in one mad dash to the finish line, as if I was that fabled rabbit finally getting a re-match with the tortoise. This book hypnotized me with its strangeness and beautifully unsettling narrative voice. I loved the writing and the palpability of all the imagery. I also really liked its commentary on college and clique cultures, critiques, and self expression. My complaints are that it was a tad repetitive and that I wanted something more for the final act. I wasn't disappointed exactly, but I really wanted the fever to break. A warning: it doesn't.  This book wasn't at all what I was expecting and I came to fall in love with it as I was reading it. Started out not thinking I was going to like it AT ALL. Then started going huh.. strange.. I'm intrigued. Then WTF IS HAPPENING RIGHT NOW?!And lastly, shock, awe and love. lol Love the unforgettable characters, the mystery of it, the magic, the horror, the allure of the well written prose, and the writing about writing about writing. If anyone knows of more like this book, please feel free to recommend them.Love this book.Recommend.7/25/21Update:Reread this again. Started about 2 days ago and just binged on through it again. I still love this book.  ok- this took me way too long to read and therefore the ending honestly took me off guard !!!!! i don’t really enjoy when mental illness is used as a trope in horror, but it was a Very blurred line between real/fake and what was magical fantasy and what was actually happening as a result of the mc (very heavily implied) schizophrenia so i don’t really know how to feel. it took me a long time to read, and i can’t really pin point why. i honestly don’t know how to feel about it tbh. it was weird, it was a good twist (for me), had unlikable characters (a good thing for me), cool commentary on arts school, and i liked jonah. tl:dr : idk how to feel  Well, this book is weird. A LOT! LOLAnd I'm still not sure if I find it good or bad weird. O.oI had some Mean Girls + Scream Queens vibes by reading this, which is fun and good because I love that movie and I enjoyed that short tv series. However, this book is divided into 3 parts. And the last 2 parts didn't work too well for me. I looooved Part 1. *..* Part 2 was just OK for me and I really disliked Part 3. I don't know. Maybe, because this one is massively weird, I didn't understand everything. It's hard to like or appreciate what we don't understand, right?It's a book I certainly wish to re-read. But for now, only 3 stars.   Οι χαρακτήρες πιο φλατ και από σκασμένο λάστιχο. Δεν καταλάβαινα με ποιον απ' όλους είχα να κάνω. Καμία προσπάθεια από τη συγγραφέα να κάνει τα πρόσωπα να μιλάνε διαφορετικά το ένα απ' το άλλο για να ξεχωρίζει ο αναγνώστης ποιος μιλάει και τι διαβάζει. Ένας κιμάς. Δεν θεωρώ ότι αυτό έγινε επίτηδες. Θεωρώ ότι η συγγραφέας δεν ήταν σε θέση να το κάνει. Δεν μπορούσε. Αυτό ως προς την γραφή. Ως προς το περιεχόμενο αν το ήξερα ότι θα κατέληγα να διαβάζω ολόκληρα κεφάλαια γεμάτα με γυναίκες που μισούν άλλες γυναίκες και γυναίκες που οδηγούνται στην παραφροσύνη για έναν άντρα δεν θα έμπαινα στον κόπο. Δυστυχώς μου το είχαν παρουσιάσει ως ενα παράξενο και καταπληκτικό βιβλίο.   I’m very happy i read this with my friends who were amazing company! Especially seeing them gasp and laugh and scream was the funniest thing ever. The plan was to do a 24 hour reading challenge (which I convinced my friend to lower to 12) and, embarrassingly enough in those 12 hours we read like 200 pages? We did finish it in two days, though, and i’m proud at us for doing so :) (and getting one step closer to our impossible reading goals!)pre-read: Gives off such House Bunny vibes… that terribly iconic movie^ it actually kind of did, didn’t it.   Reread, July 2021: Didn’t love it as much on my second read BUT it was still excellent and I still recommend it. I’m excited for All’s Well.*I loved this book. I loved the horror/fantasy twists. If you’re looking for something that’s as disturbing as it is beautiful, a book that will have you think about your friendships, your creative process, the Work (capital W), the Body (capital B)—read this!  This is a rare thing for me. I don't think I can rate this novel. I'm not sure if I liked it or hated it but don't regret having read it. Beautifully written, dreamlike and nightmarish at times. And the last sentence really shocked me. But I can't put into adequate words my thoughts about it and I'm not sure what exactly happened plot wise. Maybe in time I will be able to process it better.  the plot twist at the end of this book made me cry cause wtf?? it feels like my whole life was a lie fr but i just really love the concept, the creepiness, and the feeling of knowing and not knowing wtf is going on all at the same time. it literally just felt like a fever dream and i love that so much so top 3 favorite books fr. ALSO GIRL CULT THAT TURNS BUNNIES INTO MEN??!!?! im in.  i don’t really understand how people didn’t like this book, if anything, i was obsessed with the way the author wrote the story and tried to incorporate body horror into a setting where you’d think it wouldn’t happen. love love this book. This is by far one of the weirdest books I've ever read and I think I enjoyed it??? I enjoyed the writing style and the story was interesting, but I think some of it went over my head a little so I might have to do some research on this one! Now we don't have enough time to unpack all of that This book was definitely as strange as everyone said it was but I absolutely loved every second of it. The ending also made me really emotional??“Laughter is a rabbit hole and I’m falling, falling like Alice.” December 29 2022:1.0 - I am unable to name a single redeeming quality of this shit-showJanuary 29 2023:2.5 - I’ve had some more time to think about this, and I’m actually starting to like it more????  Dark, angry, and weird AF. I loved it. yup, this is my favourite book  even better upon re-read and now cemented as one of my favourites of all time, i think. i'd totally watch an a24 adaption of this A mixture of nightmare, loneliness, erotica, broken hearts, and a shit ton of animals loving, hating, making and breaking. Feeling kinda nauseous atm, but in a good way you know! Dark academia Frankenstein at heart, but (and hear me out) with a Legally Blonde aesthetic crazy stuff so bizarre. was so intrigued the whole time. my brain hurts but i like it??? ??????!!!!!!????????? genuinely don't know how to rate it, think i'll reread it at some point This is exactly what the inside of my head is like. This felt like a weird fever-dream. I love the writing style but I'm not gonna lie, i didn't understand the last chapters till i read an explanation from google What the actual fuck???!!!! messy  DNF @ 27%  immer noch gut! what the fuck i enjoyed the pretentious weirdness so 3.5 weird af, just the way I like it.  I love delusional heroines. This felt like a fever dream. “𝚂𝚊𝚖𝚊𝚗𝚝𝚑𝚊, 𝚘𝚑, 𝚂𝚊𝚖𝚊𝚗𝚝𝚑𝚊, 𝚠𝚑𝚊𝚝𝚎𝚟𝚎𝚛 𝚠𝚒𝚕𝚕 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚍𝚘?“Have you ever read something that was so clever, so captivating, &amp; so visual, that you immediately wanted to see it on screen? Yet, have you ever also secretly wished that it would never be adapted because there would be no way to translate all of its brilliance? Yep, that’s how I feel about 𝘉𝘶𝘯𝘯𝘺 by @misss_read. “𝚆𝚎𝚕𝚌𝚘𝚖𝚎 𝚝𝚘 𝚆𝚘𝚛𝚔𝚜𝚑𝚘𝚙, 𝙱𝚞𝚗𝚗𝚢.“I downloaded this book on a whim and found myself fully immersed in Awad’s sardonic, funny, &amp; heartbreaking story about the beautiful, hive-minded Bunnies and their classmate, Samantha, who yearns to belong. “𝚃𝚑𝚎𝚢 𝚊𝚕𝚠𝚊𝚢𝚜 𝚜𝚊𝚝 𝚘𝚗 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚏𝚕𝚘𝚘𝚛 𝚘𝚏 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚑𝚊𝚕𝚕𝚠𝚊𝚢 𝚠𝚊𝚒𝚝𝚒𝚗𝚐, 𝚜𝚕𝚞𝚖𝚙𝚎𝚍 𝚊𝚐𝚊𝚒𝚗𝚜𝚝 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚠𝚊𝚕𝚕 𝚊𝚜 𝚝𝚑𝚘𝚞𝚐𝚑 𝚝𝚑𝚎𝚢 𝚍𝚒𝚍𝚗‘𝚝 𝚑𝚊𝚟𝚎 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚎𝚗𝚎𝚛𝚐𝚢 𝚝𝚘 𝚜𝚝𝚊𝚗𝚍, 𝚝𝚑𝚎𝚒𝚛 𝚕𝚎𝚐𝚜 𝚑𝚊𝚍 𝚐𝚒𝚟𝚎𝚗 𝚠𝚊𝚢, 𝚜𝚞𝚛𝚛𝚘𝚞𝚗𝚍𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚐𝚛𝚊𝚗𝚍𝚏𝚊𝚝𝚑𝚎𝚛 𝚌𝚕𝚘𝚌𝚔 𝚕𝚒𝚔𝚎 𝚍𝚘𝚕𝚕𝚜 𝚜𝚘𝚖𝚎𝚘𝚗𝚎 𝚏𝚘𝚛𝚐𝚘𝚝 𝚝𝚘 𝚙𝚞𝚝 𝚊𝚠𝚊𝚢.“The entirety of this book reads like a fevered dream, but in the best possible way. If I had it in a physical copy, there would not have been enough tabs in the world for all of my annotations. “𝚆𝚑𝚎𝚗 𝚑𝚎 𝚕𝚘𝚘𝚔𝚜 𝚊𝚝 𝚖𝚎, 𝙸 𝚏𝚎𝚎𝚕 𝚖𝚢 𝚛𝚒𝚋𝚌𝚊𝚐𝚎 𝚘𝚙𝚎𝚗 𝚕𝚒𝚔𝚎 𝚊 𝚙𝚊𝚒𝚛 𝚘𝚏 𝙵𝚛𝚎𝚗𝚌𝚑 𝚍𝚘𝚘𝚛𝚜. 𝙴𝚟𝚎𝚛𝚢𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚝𝚑𝚊𝚝 𝚔𝚎𝚎𝚙𝚜 𝚖𝚎 𝚊𝚕𝚒𝚟𝚎 𝚜𝚞𝚍𝚍𝚎𝚗𝚕𝚢 𝚋𝚊𝚛𝚎𝚍 𝚊𝚗𝚍 𝚝𝚑𝚎𝚛𝚎 𝚏𝚘𝚛 𝚝𝚑𝚎 𝚝𝚊𝚔𝚒𝚗𝚐.“Although hinted at from page 1, the final reveal is delightfully unfurled slowly, then faster &amp; faster until we are asking ourselves how we could have even dared to question it. I can’t say more without the possibility of spoilers. However, I will say that I have discovered my new favourite word ~ borny. It’s perfect. Have you read 𝘉𝘶𝘯𝘯𝘺? You should.   Idk how to feel about this. I knew going into this book it was going to be very, very weird and wouldn’t make sense. I’m okay with that, and I was. For awhile. I think because it took me awhile to finish it made me disconnect from it. By me picking it up after several pauses it might have ruined this book a little bit for me. So, do I recommend this? Sure. To who? No idea. This book makes no sense but it’s not meant to. This book can be interpreted in so many ways. It can have so many endings. Things won’t mean the same to everyone. That’s the books intent though, and I get that. I like that about this book in fact. The weirdness of it was jarring, but fun. You’re not meant to have all the answers. So, if you like books that are coherent and will make sense in the end then this book isn’t for you. However, if you like weird things that will make absolutely no sense but you’re here for the *vibes* then I would say give this a chance. It’s a short book after all. I would recommend trying to read this in one sitting or at least without many breaks in between. I’m glad I finally read it and I did enjoy reading Mona’s writing. She definitely has an interesting imagination lol. I would be interested in giving other books by her a chance, too.Overall, wish I would have liked it more but I didn’t hate it. I recommend it to those that are prepared to read something quite like a fever dream and perhaps not understand a damn thing lol.   Bunny is a crazy fever dream that literally latched onto my brain at night.This does read like The Craft x Mean Girls x Scream—it focuses on the bougie, pretentious, and out of touch rich spoiled brats in a prestigious creative writing school, akin to a swarm of bees. The main character, Samantha, is presented as the self-aware, rugged girl who's not "really like these other girls," but slowly morphs into one of these "bonobos/bunnies" herself as she joins the clique:"I melt into it, their hug, allowing, nay, willing myself to be crushed. I become one with the blob."The author is incredible at building suspense/mystery and delivering observations that you kind of know deep down but don't really know how to articulate it, especially in such a prose-y way. I wouldn't say that the book is dominated by satire (which I don't mind), and I'm glad that it didn't fall into an all too common trap where the narrator constantly overexplains or is too unsubtle/heavy-handed with the social commentary. It's a pretty experimental novel where Samantha's own voice gets slowly drowned out by the other bunnies, with her eventually attempting to find it again. I love how even until the end, certain things aren't completely explained, leaving room for interpretation. One thing I will say is that the climax of the book didn't really do it for me—when a certain plot point got revealed somewhere in the last part, it feels like the tone and atmosphere of the book remained stagnant until the end.As far as books about unhinged women go, this gets my stamp of approval.  3.5/5What a wild, trippy ride this book is! A fairytale horror novel set in a prestigious MFA program is in and of itself quite a unique premise, and for the most part, it delivers. There were times, however, where Awad takes it a notch too far with the absurdity before she reins it in. Samantha, the protagonist, seems like your normal, sullen grad student stuck in a prolonged writer's block and falling massively behind on her assignments. The novel opens with her observing and detesting a closely-knit group of her peers, a hyperfeminine, hyper-girly group of students who seem to address each other as 'bunny' and collectively refer to themselves as bunnies. Things start to take a drastic turn when Samantha is invited to join their cultish little group and participate in weird 'experiments' to expand their creativity and inspire them in their pursuit of narratives. What follows seems like a violent, hallucinogenic roller coaster of events some of which seem too bizarre to digest. It's only in the last third of the novel that you slowly begin to see sense in its absurdity and the overall plot arc. It's fascinatingly disturbing just how she manages to turn this group of candy-pink, hyper girly girls into something truly terrifying. I have to say, I applaud Awad for just how original and dangerously absurd this novel is and just how unique her writing style is as well. It is so overwritten, so extra, but it really works.I'd hesitate to recommend this novel, but if you're onboard for something bonkers and scary, this might be right up your street.  4.5 starsthis is hands down the most bizarre and fucked up book i've ever read. it was sick, twisted, depraved and horrific.. but like also so entertaining and hard to put down. i really really enjoyed this. it was fun to branch out to a genre im not at all used to and refreshing to not know exactly how it would end. i found the pacing was perfect, and it kept me engaged the entire time. this is basically about samantha, an MFA student at Warren University in New England. the other girls in her fiction writing workshop are part of an annoying clique, where they constantly call each other bunny and essentially worship the ground they each walk on. then to samantha's surprise, they invite her to their weekly "smut salon" and start treating her as a fellow bunny. from there, shit gets SUPER FUCKING WEIRD. but i literally could not stop reading and i just wanted answers and wanted to know what would happen. mona awad is truly a great storyteller and her portrayal of a struggling writer losing her mind and starting to doubt everything was so vivid and captivating. definitely recommend if you like extremely weird books  ���Laughter is a rabbit hole and I’m falling, falling like Alice”This one is definitely different!To be honest I’m still not sure how I feel about it.Befuddle is the word that comes to mind when I think on what I read. There were times I was thinking what the 
  BUNNIES
 and times I was in awe of Mona’s portrayal of events and circumstances.In the beginning I did struggle with the simple sentences and I thought it would deter me form finishing the book, but somehow I just kept reading. Through the confusion and weird style and on to the very end. Will I recommend it? Will I re-read it?I’m not sure… I will however try and discus it with people who’ve already read it, to try and make sense of my feelings towards it.I’m adding All's Well to my TBR, to see if maybe reading more of Mona’s work will clarify her way of thinking to me.Afterwards, I might (a big MIGHT) revisit this book.  There are two types of weird books: those that go completely over my head and those that are absolutely bonkers but still somehow make sense. Luckily, Bunny was one of the latter for me. It was weird and confusing at times, but it came together in the end. I enjoyed the writing and overall experience, but I understand why it doesn’t work for some people. Proceed with caution and watch out for bunnies.  I am not giving any ratings cause I don't know how to rate this weird ass book. Also, it was one of the most painfully over-described books I have ever read. I don't mind details but this was just too much. Go ahead and read it if you want. But boy! do I regret buying and reading this book. Now I am stuck with a copy of a book that I don't even like! The only lesson this book has offered me is to be aware of book marketing strategies. Also not to trust any book influencers (Sorry, not sorry).  I love this book as an adult for the same reasons I loved Alice in Wonderland as a child. It's like a fever dream. Or a drug-induced hallucination. Bizarre, twisted, and eerily magical.Essentially an evocation of loneliness, insecurity, female desire, and the blurred lines between imagination and reality, I think this book is quite brilliant.  4,5 stars! I totally devoured this book. This writing reminded me of an movie narrators voice. Really loved the style, and the plot was interesting to say least. I never knew which direction it would go, which made me eager to read chapter after chapter. There is something about female authors, that write unhinged books like this one. I’m in awe!  This book is absolutely bonkers, completely disorienting and utterly worthwhile for the open-minded. My work book club meeting for this one is going to be interesting! can see why alot of reviewers gave rave review but felt the book was okay but wasn't for me though  Insanity personified, I’m obsessed I dont know what is real.Such an experience!!!!!!! what did i just read, but in a good way  This book is so much more complex and brilliant than people give it credit for. I could talk about it for days on end and never get bored. The more I think about it, the more I like it. What a weird little book that was written just for me. 4.5 Hahahaha va i helv????? Som om Bret Easton Ellis och Donna Tartt fick ett kärleksbarn ihop och det barnet växte upp och skaffade barn med Chuck Palahniuck och Ottessa Moshfeghs något bortskämda unge? everyone who says, ahem, pardon my french “wtf is this” makes me want to read this even more :,)  Good Lord! Bizarre! Beautifully written and funny. Awad is too clever by half, and I was mostly intrigued but occasionally irked. I loved this book so much, I have no words.And the proof of that is that I'm here at 1.33 am writing this review because I couldn't put the book down to go to sleep. How am I suppose to live, laugh, love after finishing this book? This was a dark, weird, fever dream of a book that was somewhere between Alice in Wonderland and Heathers, but with extra murder. I loved it. wtf did i just read but in the best possible way gdyby bohaterowie tajemnej historii mieli króliczki i byli ciągle na kwasie  The only reviews I've seen and snippets of people's opinion have been something like "what the f". Now I get it.This book was so weird. Though for me a good weird. It jumped right into the action which I could really appreciate. I'm not going to talk too much about the plot, because if you're interested you just need to experience it. You love it or you hate it. It's dramatic and extreme. I really enjoyed it and definitely look more into the author's other work.   don't even know how to rate this one because what the fuck? heathers x mean girls x the craft but on steroids. so incredibly bizarre yet enticing. if anyone ever asks me what i think the perfect book is, i'm going to hand them this How delightfully weird!  I am completely confused…This book was about so much and yet so little at the same time… I don't entirely understand what I just read but I enjoyed it anyways? The end lost me a little bit. but uhh fever dream on acid in a way that reminds me of in my dreams i hold a knife and also,,,, what the fuck i am struggling to process this book, going to go rant to my boyfriend brb 4.5/5Weird but totally interesting plot Combination between mean girls &amp;The craft (plus cult and creepy feeling). Absolutely want to re-read someday if i got the physical book version! Couldn’t put it down. What the fuck. Updating to a 4.5 but we're not rounding up. I hate to say this but this book is a little forgettable. I don't think about it that much. Although I do think of Max a lot.That was the best fever dream I've ever hadHow did Mona Awad even write something so witty so wonderful yet so bizarre? So.Ava has to be one of my favorite written characters I've ever read. I was so attached to her and lonely when she wasn't there. Also Max was just amazing and perfect and unique and I'm in love with him.The writing style is definitely something you have to get used to but I grew to love it and it became easier to read but so lovely.I wouldn't even know how to describe this book to someone or why I like it but I'm weirdly connected to it and love it with my whole soul. Oh Bunny you are so so sweet!  We call them Bunnies because that is what they call each other. Seriously. Bunny.’I’m a bit all over the place with this book. I’d call it a ‘yo-yo read’. It’s sickly sweet, ugly pretty, cutely foul and oddly addictive. I was up and down throughout, with awkward ‘do I even like this’ moments. On numerous occasions I was indeed loving it in all its twisted hilarity.Samantha Heather Mackey is an outsider in her small, highly selective MFA program at Warren University. In fact, she is utterly repelled by the rest of her fiction writing cohort – a clique of unbearably twee rich girls who call each other ‘Bunny’.But then the Bunnies issue her with an invitation and Samantha finds herself inexplicably drawn to their front door, across the threshold, and down their rabbit hole.Bunny was an unusual choice for me as it’s got Young Adult/Fantasy genre written all over it – not my usual choice. But this book feels like it not only blends genres, but bends them too. Into very uncomfortable positions.It’s as funny as hell in places and has a fair few horrific scenes. On Goodreads someone described it as ‘one of the most demented books I’ve ever read’. I dig a bit of weirdness in my books, so my FOMO got the better of me!I’m a member of The Ladies of Horror Fiction Group on Goodreads and there was a choice of books for September to vote for. Bunny won, so I thought, oh why not, let’s do it! I’m glad I did, but I’m still not sure I even liked it much!I’m in the UK and this is an American based book. I found certain things that I didn’t connect with. The education system in the USA is something I know nothing about. Also certain pop culture went over my head, so perhaps things were a bit lost on me.The quirky characters were cracking, the humour was dark and dry, it was shockingly funny on countless occasions. It was written in such a way that is felt ‘chatty’ and flowed from page to brain* very easily.*whilst mashing it up repeatedly.The Sunday Independent quotes it as ‘Mean Girls with added menace’ and I completely agree.At three quarters through I felt it was just playing with me. My feelings went from ‘this is weird’ to this is ‘REALLY VERY weird’. Then ‘it’s so hilarious but still weird.’ Then ‘uh-oh, I’m getting a bit bored of the repetitive bits in the middle here.’ And the final part was just ‘whaaat??? – I’m not sure I even ‘get it!’Talk about rollercoaster! It’s like nothing I’ve read before ever. But I think I liked it.Would I read it again? No. Would I recommend it? I would, yes. But it’s definitely not for everyone. Maybe it would sit better with an American reader, and certainly would be more appreciated by someone twenty years younger than myself.Apparently the rights are sold to AMC for a possible TV-film adaptation. I think it would be better on screen, I’d watch it, but only because I’ve read it.It comes across as a weird, fantastical teen/YA story, with elements of horror that is cleverly put together. I enjoyed the characters and their strange behaviours, the writing was extremely good but overall I’d say it is an above average ‘Bunny Tail’ deserving of 3/5 bunnies.I’ll leave you with a couple of lines which made me pull a right dodgy face;‘A pause so pregnant it delivers, consumes its own spawn, then grows big with child again.’‘She looks at us all in her probing, intensely gynaecological way.’Urgh! That’s just ‘orrible!!  4.5nie pamiętam kiedy tak dobrze się BAWIŁAM czytającnie mam głębszych przemyśleń, przez ¾ książki obstawiałam różne rzeczy i niby podejrzewałam, ale właściwie to się nie domyśliłam, więc w sumie na plus! jeśli chcecie czytać, to przygotujcie się na dziwne i niepokojące rzeczy (kocham)  What in the bizarro world did I just read?I don’t know what to say......or......how I’d explain this.🐰 It’s like Alice gone all wrong meets Mean Girls meets Netflix version of Sabrina the Teenage Witchand yet nothing like any of it.🐰 Yeah. Okay. Bye.🐰 One last word: I don’t think this book is for everyone. You’d really have to love the very eccentric, to find this worthy of your time. 🐰 Okay, bye for real.Bunny out.🐰   This book was wild. I don't even really know where to start. It's horror, with cutesy stepford wive/mean girl main characters and a relatively unreliable narrator. It's absolutely wild. I don't even really know how to process it.  This book was like walking through a carnival mirror house.  [9.07/10]ok... ok... okkkkkk I'm really not sure how to tackle this review, because this was the one of the weirdest books I've ever read, I had no idea what was going on half the time, I was grossed out, I was u-n-s-e-t-t-l-e-d, I was delighted, I felt the mundanity of repetition, I hated it and I loved it so much. People compare this book to the movie heathers a lot and that's definitely a really appropriate comparison, but tack on some body horror, intellectual satire and fairytale retelling to round it out. But, even then I still don't think that's enough to describe all of this wtfuckery.So what is it about? The setting is a prestigious college named Warren (*wink*wink*nudge*nudge*), where the majority of characters are taking part in an MFA writing program. Samantha is the main character and she opens the book by giving us her observations of a female clique referred to as The Bunnies. Through the eyes of Samantha The Bunnies are ridiculous and stereotypical in the way that someone on the outside of a close-knit friendship group would observe. The story kicks into gear early on when Samantha gets invited to one of their "smut salon" parties and that's about all I can say because from there on the story explodes into a miasma of real vs unreal, creative self-wank, masturbatory fantasy, toxic academics, insular friendships, self-aware allegory that maybe isn't actually allegory, a critique on the institutionalisation of art and artists, and this is only my interpretation of the book. I imagine someone reading this review, who has also read this book and thinking 'wtf is she talking about? literally none of that happened' because maybe it didn't... I feel like you'll get the most out of this book if you grew up in the late 80s / 90s because it very much felt like a time capsule of weird I-don't-know-where-to-put-this-or-what-to-do-with-this media from those decades. It's very much in the vein of cult-favourite, people will read this book and detest it, but it will also be one of those books where a certain subset will make it their whole personality. For me, I adored every weird second of it so I guess I'm a Bunny now.  1.5 starsthere was so much meat to work with here but the seasoning wasn't it. i love the idea of an experimental book told from the pov of an unreliable narrator experiencing a cult-like group of girls being absolutely wild. there were also times when bunny was a satire about academic elitists pretending to be smart and i loved that. the disjointed narrative and punchy storytelling was disorienting but fun. however, there were way more problems than positives.i often forgot i was reading an adult novel instead of something from the young adult age group. not to mention, i have a huge problem with how much of a "cool, not like other girls" the narrator was supposed to be while hyper-feminine women were villainized. half the time, i wished the story was told from another pov because i wanted to know how the girls actually were instead of through an internalized misogynistic lens. i didn't care for the inappropriate relationships like why did it need to exist. i'm also not a fan of how much was left up to interpretation. i'm not the kind of reader who always needs closure but literally nobody can explain this book without saying "i think it means this."this could have been a huge success for me had it not leaned so hard into the horrible tropes that american cult classics like mean girls portray without criticism. media like that are a "1 step forward, 2 steps back" kinda thing and, while fun, it's important not to push these narratives for their harmfulness, especially in 2023. let's leave that shit behind us.  Devo essere onesta: il libro non è stato all'altezza delle mie aspettative. I personaggi sono abbastanza bidimensionali (è stato come ritrovare in un romanzo le stesse "aesthetics" che si trovano su instagram e tiktok), la trama è abbastanza prevedibile e la protagonista è insopportabile. C'è una ragione precisa se molti personaggi sono quasi delle macchiette, ed è strettamente legata alla trama e al messaggio dell'opera, tuttavia non trovo che l'esecuzione sia tra le migliori, soprattutto se si prendono in considerazione i numerosi altri lavori che trattano le stesse tematiche (trauma, solitudine, malattie mentali, emarginazione, l'influenza dei compagni e della società, disuguaglianze sociali, ecc. ecc.).Il linguaggio usato dall'autrice è inoltre fortemente ironico e caustico, e di per sé è ben eseguito, solo che io sto leggendo in contemporanea Infinite Jest di DFW, che in quanto a satira, comicità ed ironia è cento spanne avanti, per cui non sono riuscita ad apprezzare appieno lo stile di Mona Awad.Un punto a favore di Bunny è il modo spettacolare con cui l'autrice crea l'atmosfera tesa, surreale e horror che mi ha fatta rimanere incollata alle pagine del libro per tre giorni interi. Vale la pena leggerlo anche solo per questo. Infine, è un libro che intrattiene e di facile comprensione. Va benissimo per una lettura in spiaggia, in treno o sotto le coperte. Mi rendo conto di aver fatto una recensione poco lusinghiera, ma in realtà leggerlo è stato molto piacevole, nonostante i chiari difetti. Per questo ho dato 3 stelle e non 2.«Why do you lie so much? And about the weirdest little things?", my mother always asked me. "I don’t know", I always said. But I did know. It was very simple. Because it was a better story.»  I’m not quite sure what I just experienced.Although completely bizarre, I was so taken by this book. Bunny introduces us to graduate student Samantha who is suffering from some severe writer’s block. Being from a poor background, she doesn’t fit in with her fellow rich-girl workshop partners who call each other by the pet name ‘Bunny’. On the periphery of these toffee-nosed girls, she finds their excessive enthusiasm and sycophantic compliments of one another’s work nauseating. Yet, there is something about their mini-cupcakes and sparkling world that draws her in. What she discovers when invited into their inner circle happens to be the very opposite…Awad has created a dark, wicked tale – rather than girly, gossiping sleepovers, these girls are gathering for some casual, light murder. You know, the usual. In addition, Samantha’s imaginative mind often trails off to visceral and gross realms – described as ‘angry’, and ‘mean’ by the Bunnies – while suffering the extremities of loneliness and obsession. It’s by no means for the faint of heart. The whimsical characters and unexpected plot twists also emanate a fairy-tale quality, albeit a gruesome one. It was laden with offbeat metaphors, some that no doubt flew right over my head, providing an astute, humorous commentary on college cliques, the arts and feminism. This may have been beyond what I was expecting, and it won’t be for everyone. It was bonkers and I loved every second of it. Dark, surreal and infused with madness, this was perfect for the run-up to Halloween. Now I'm waiting for everyone to read it so I can discuss in depth.  I was sucked in by the Heathers comparisons and all of the five star ratings I've seen flying around. Bunny started off very promising but ultimately didn't work for me. There are plenty of interesting ideas and themes here but I felt they were half-formed and scattered throughout a rather messy story.At first the protagonist, Samantha, is quite a sympathetic character and one I felt I could get behind but she soon becomes rather unlikeable and I quickly lost interest in following her story. In fact, all but one minor character in this book are pretty unlikeable but none are interesting enough to make them readable. Other than some of the adult content this novel reads like YA (to clarify, I don't have anything against YA but I don't think that's what this book is) and it is very dialogue heavy. It's one of those novels that thinks it's way more clever than it actually is. Maybe her writing style just isn't my cup of tea.It touches on some horror themes but keeps it at a distance as if going any further would degrade the novel from whatever high-brow level it was wanting to achieve. So that rubbed me the wrong way.I buddy read this with my friend Emily and while we agreed on a lot of things while reading it the way the story wrapped up made our overall feelings on the book differ from each other's. Emily felt it outweighed some of the negative aspects so she rated it higher than I did, whereas for me it compounded all the things I didn't like about it...hence my low rating. In short, Bunny had some moments that I quite enjoyed but overall this fell really flat for me.  “You have to kill your darlings,” Faulkner once told us. But what if you’re Samantha Heather Mackey, and your darlings begin to physically manifest in your world? And they’re, uh...not right. Not right at ALL.Meet Bunny, a wild, weird tale of one tortured writer whose vivid imagination and myriad insecurities creepily become tangible beings. At once zany and erudite, absurd and full of Gravitas, Bunny is delightfully pedantic (not a pejorative term, in my book) and mind bendingly strange.The book starts out as a standard tale of an impoverished misfit attempting to navigate treacherous waters both social and academic at an elite private graduate program, and then morphs into something almost akin to a slasher-style horror novel. You’ll spend most of the middle of the book with eyes agog muttering, “What the eff is going on here??” You’ll definitely be confused, possibly be sad, and perhaps be a little grossed out. And then the pieces slide into place and...BAM! Brilliant. Oh! And did I catch a reference to Connie Converse?!I take some issue with the publishers summary...No, this is definitely NOT like Heathers, and I worry that such a description will draw the wrong audience. But Bunny is a truly unique and riveting piece of fiction that I hope will still be appreciated even by an audience that perhaps didn’t realize quite what they were getting into.  When Samantha - an introverted graduate student in a prestigious MFA program, is invited to join a clique of women who call each other "Bunny" she soon finds herself drawn into a world of bizarre rituals and increasingly disturbing events.Bunny is full of surreal imagery and dreamlike sequences that blur the line between reality and fantasy, making the story feel like a strange, hazy dream. In that regard, the author perfectly captures the disorienting feeling of being lost in a surreal dream.Even though I did guess the main twist before its reveal, I was still immersed in the story which kept me interested from beginning to end. An instant favorite.   This book is about exploding rabbits. It's a mind fuck, and it's incredible.A group of overly perfect graduate students at a prestigious fine arts school form a cult. They call each other Bunny, drink Pinkberry and work on their thesis. They also use magic to transform rabbits into men so they can have dates.These rabbit men never turn out quite right. Sometimes they still have rabbit feet or hands. Sometimes they're violent or just won't stop screaming. Sometimes the rabbit men explode after the women are done with them. Sometimes they're driven to the edge of town and abandoned. Sometimes they're hacked to death with an axe.Samantha, a social outcast with no family, is invited to the Bunnies' Smut Salon to take part in their writing workshop. She's quickly drawn into their circle, becoming a Bunny and ignoring her only friend Ava. A roller coaster of craziness ensues which will make you question everything.This book is incredibly weird and won't be for everyone, but if it sounds like your jam, I highly recommend it. Apparently it's going to become a TV show as well, so now's your time to read it before it was cool.  
  “Behold the lavish tent under which the overeducated mingle, well versed in every art but the one of conversation.”
How do you even review a book like Bunny? It's a very hard novel to grasp, even after reading, and it's even harder to describe or review completely. Yes it's a satire on academia, on female cliques, on the often farcical nature of pretentious artists. It's about gender and the patriarchy and power. It was creepy and tense and often confusing; the entire central act read like a lucid dream, the climax like I'm not even sure I or the characters knew was happening. I just have no idea what to make of it, or which of a myriad of statements it was making. Don't get me wrong, it was definitely making a statement, I just don't think I was invested enough to work out what that statement was.But I was still so fascinated by the bunnies, in the way our protagonist was too. I was intrigued to find out what they were doing, and why they were the way the were, and what it meant. I wanted to know how much was actually happening, how much was just how Samantha perceived things to be, and how much was only happening in Samantha's head. So it was definitely an experience. A weird experience. But I'm glad that I read it.  my favorite genre by far is girls doing unhinged things so obviously i enjoyed this book. i think something that worked so well for this is how so many elements came together to form this captivating, zany, whirling story; the horror, satire, magical realism, sad girl prose, and cultural critique made for a unique and dizzying reading experience. i felt like i was in a bunny drug induced haze for most of this but in the best way. one of the most interesting aspects of this novel was the conversation it brought up about agency, especially within women protagonists, and i think mona awad brilliantly comments on lack of agency especially when rooted in the Process itself. this was such a fun read and i don’t often say this but i really think this might translate really well into a film, specially distributed by a24 and directed by greta gerwig or sofia coppola (that’s my vision). i think the imagery, especially each bunny’s aesthetics contrasted with samantha’s and ava’s is so tangible when reading this that it would be so cool to see. overall, i thoroughly enjoyed reading this. i want to get into more detail about the darlings and workshop and samantha’s mental state but i’ll save that for another day. i love you bunny!   this book was a LOT. it was really confusing during some parts, and i’m not even sure if half of what went on was actually real. i think the second half was way better than the first. i enjoyed samathas character the longer i was in her perspective, and i started to feel for her and understand her motivation for becoming close to the bunnies. i thought the ending was somewhat anticlimactic, because i personally thought the bunnies deserved some kind of punishment (besides breaking their limbs) for all they did throughout the book. i wish it had been more clear that samantha was a lesbian or bisexual women, i thought at some points she may have been in love with ava but i wasn’t entirely sure. i was right about something being off about ava because we didn’t know much about her backstory so i felt like she was something samantha may have invented, and i was pretty right about that. jonah should’ve been a larger part of the story, i think his friendship with samantha had a lot of potential. overall this book was good and definitely a unique read but it wasn’t perfect. This was the most frustrating book I’ve read this year, and I read At-Swim-Two-Birds. I’m a fan of Mean Girls, Heathers and I also work in academia. I thought this was a perfect fit. Instead, I’m reading about characters more likely to be in middle school than MFA students, protagonist included. Never more have I been cringing for the “outsider” character than this Hot Topic exclusive individual who seems to feel victimized by the goddamn breeze. I don’t have to like characters to like a book. I can suggest to you many excellent books with unlikable female leads. I also very much enjoy surrealism and body horror and am not upset if I’m confused. This, however, was a hodge podge for edginess’s sake, sloppy and whiny. Admittedly, something a younger, more hormonal version of myself would write. God help anyone who listened to the audiobook, where the narrator does three kinds of baby voices repeating “Bunny” ad nauseam.   I won’t be lying if I say that ‘Bunny’ is hell of a pleasant surprise. I had never read any book by Mona Awad, and had not expected to. But this ebook had a nice price, so I thought I’d give it a try.And oh my gosh!What a weird trip this was! But a really nice one, that made me keep on reading. So much so, that I read the book in 24h.And finished reading it with tears in my eyes, because the story touched me in ways I have no words for. But I truly enjoyed it, as well as Mona Awad’s writing.However, my five stars are actually four and a half, because I felt the story lost some steam during the second part, only regaining it on the third part. And I didn’t like Samantha that much during those moments. Had it not been for that, this would have been a solid five-star rating for me.Such a weird, crazy, sad, story. What a wonderful surprise! Now I’m feeling like I must read the other books Mona Awad wrote.  I don't know, maybe this just wasn't for me? I mean, its the recipe for everything I like; cult, dark academia, outsider narrator etc. I flew through both the first and last 100 pages but the mid section felt like walking around with my eyes closed? came very close to dnfing on more than one occasion but then there would be a hint of intrigue or a sudden twist dragging me on through.I'm just going to use a quote from the book itself to explain my feelings towards it.I think, this must just be too brilliant for you to grasp. Surely you must have missed something. Even though there's always been this small voice inside 0f me that says, Um, what the f*ckis this, please? This makes no sense. (page 313)  Bunny…How do I even begin to explain Bunny?The prose was flawless.It was a melding of Alice in Wonderland and Mean Girls, sexy and full of horror.Satirical and saccharine.Consuming and compelling.My favourite part was one chapter of incredible subversive, collective narrative…I wanted more.One feels as though they are part of the hallucinogenic boat ride in Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory.And even if you think you want to get off, you can’t.Multiple times, it felt like a punch to the face. It was awesome.   Mona Awad is a new favorite author. There is so much depth and symbolism within this eerie book that I will have to re-read. She has the talent to write books in a style that is so confusing and icky and insightful that by the end you feel as though you've taken a shroom trip. I can see why this book is polarizing, but I found it to be a statement on what happens when dealing with the group dynamics of women, the environment of grad school (specifically an MFA program), and how we navigate our feelings of loneliness and isolation. Well-done.   nightfilm read [may]“we never joke about bunnies, bunny.”this book was just SO perfect bunny. so! 🐇 if you take mean girls, jennifer’s body + the craft and cast a little bunny magic on them, you get this book!!bunny was completely bizarre, hallucinogenic, unhinged, culty, experimental, everything!! as soon as i finished the last line, i just wanted to turn straight back to page 1 + start all over again &lt;3PS — you are cordially invited to read this with @nightfilmbookclub in may!! when: the blue hour :), where: you know where :), bring: yourself, please :)  the most confusing yet remarkable book i’ve ever read. This was WILD! I was a bit frustrated at first because there's so obviously a deeper layer to it that the reader doesn't have immediate access to, but the sheer absurdity on the surface level serves as an excellent distraction until the big reveal. Great blend of visceral glitter-coated horror, writing workshop drama, metaphor, and atmosphere. I'm unlikely to forget this one anytime soon.  4.5that was actually pretty fucking brilliant I could not put it down or stop thinking about this book. The funny story is I actually dnfed it at the beginning of the year because I was so confused but lately I caught myself thinking about certain parts of this book and so I picked it up and I'm so glad that I did.  edit: Awad really left her mark in my brain with this book and I keep thinking about it. I was going to wait until I reread it to bump it up, but I think it’s worth bumping up to 5 stars a drug induced dark academia Heathers kinda vibe i loved this i don’t care Mona Awad is a genius and i will devour everything she writes  This book was really hard for me to rate but I have to give Mona Awad credit because of how bizarre this was and because of the sheer amount of weird, cool metaphors and images she somehow conjured up. A lot of the time I have issues with books that feel overwritten but her writing is so precise and reality-altering that I feel like I have to give her 5 stars for that alone.  This was a TRIP. Alice in Wonderland meets Mean Girls meets Lord of the Flies.A reflection on loneliness, conformity, and creativity. Hilarious, disturbing, sharp. I could have read this in one sitting. I feel like there is so much more subtext to this than even I am gleaning from reading it and I just want a deep-dive on everything. Anyone know of a good interview (with spoilers!) with Awad?This book is not for everyone, that’s for sure. But I think I actually love it?  I picked this book up for bookclub. I knew it was a horror book, but I wasn't sure what to expect. I really was confused for about a third of the book, but then it finally got my attention and I sailed through to the end. I enjoyed it, but I don't think I will read it again. I should have run to Mexico instead of reading this book.Bunny sounded like a book that I'd enjoy but hell no I absolutely didn't. The writing style was not my cup of tea and also it felt very new-adult-like. This book was bananas. The writing was crazy, I found myself literally pausing to digest. It was so twisty that I dove into a Reddit thread giving interpretations by people who read it. That helped me a little bit. Overall, a good book but also I have a headache.  2 stars ? 2.5 stars ? 3 stars ? i’m honestly not certain what to rate this book. it isn’t my favorite style and it inspired a hate-vent or two but it was also compulsively readable. the best way i can think of to describe this book is that it was like a fever dream. to było tak pokręcone i pobudzające, jak bycie na haju albo w jakimś stanie półsnu. czytało się bardzo dobrze, jak silny zastrzyk realizmu magicznego, który para się czarną magią. a moment kolektywizacji Samanthy z resztą Bunnych, narracja niczym w transie, wątek jakby okultystyczny — no wybitne.   YES!! 5 stars! Full review to come Wow. What a ride! This was so weird and fucked up. I loved it. Just don’t... Waste of time. hey Bunny, don't you think people will L O V E this book? because we love this book, don't we Bunny? It' SO fun! : ) you gotta read it Bunny, you gotta read it! That was weird. So, so weird.  This book was so bizarre that I started writing me review before it was even finished now I gotta go finish it. Aye, my head. That was completely insane and I loved every second of it. It was love, hate, friendship, feeling other, jealousy, revenge, forgiveness, and a whole lot of WTF is this? And all fabulous. This book is what I imagine an acid trip to be.  February 2022Still amazing. Even better the 2nd time. August 2020I’ve never finished a book and been like wtf did I just read. I’m utterly speechless and confused but kind of loved it?!?  every time i finish this book i never really know how to feel but im certain that i love it because each time my brain chemistry has been left altered hahahahaha I don’t know what’s real anymore  WHAT DID I JUST READ??!! I ...honestly have no words. The most bizarre book I have ever read. The whole thing is like a fever dream lol this is one of the most insane and unique books i've ever read and i loved it so so much. i'm already so excited to reread and lose my mind all over again  took a long time to get into, but it was fun! could not tell you a single thing that happened though  This whiny, judgmental, self-aggrandising, MFA-flexing, pseudo-feminist book is exactly what I imagine Lena Dunham’s character in Girls would write. weird surrealist girl cult at an exclusive MFA program; totally engrossing, i read it in a matter of days. scratched a real itch for good fiction that i always forget i have dnf at 47% 
  Bunny.
 The entire time reading this book I was starving for meaning, figuring out some elements of the story while blaming myself for not understanding the rest, dropping theories with each chapter, hoping there would be a nice little summary at the end to clarify things for me. And even though the story itself told me many times that I didn't have to fully understand it, that stories can be pretentious and meaningless and not owe any explanation to the reader, I wanted it badly. That's why I read this in a day. “What do you think, Samantha?” Fosco asks me. That it’s a piece of pretentious shit. That it says nothing, gives nothing. That I don’t understand it, that probably no one does and no one ever will. That not being understood is a privilege I can’t afford. That I can’t believe this woman got paid to come here. That I think she should apologize to trees. Spend a whole day on her knees in the forest, looking up at the trembling aspens and oaks and whatever other trees paper is made of with tears in her languid eyes and say, I’m fucking sorry. I’m sorry that I think I’m so goddamned interesting when it is clear that I am not interesting. Here’s what I am: I’m a boring tree murderess. The stories I told myself while reading entertained me, and I assume that's what the author wants from the reader: to take what's true and spin it into a better, prettier, more intellectual story that fits the reader's wishes.  That's what the narrator does and that's what we (indirectly) see the other characters do. At a certain point there is only one plausible explanation for everything, and it isn't exciting. After letting the unreliable narrator frame the story and gradually lose control over it, I found myself wanting her to take back the reins, to finish it with a spectacle. Nevertheless, the real ending comes, it is even overexplained, and I'm left frustrated. Because I needed more. Because the protagonist gave me her eyes for this story and then forced me to take them off.  
  Why do you lie so much? And about the weirdest little things? my mother always asked me. I don’t know, I always said. But I did know. It was very simple. Because it was a better story.
Bunny has amazing writing and offers a unique experience. I'm aware that if I had read this in a different mood I would have absolutely hated it. Good for me I didn't.
  A single room on the west side, which I really thought was just fine even though it didn’t quite pass my suicide visualization test. Could I picture shooting myself here? Definitely I could. Hanging myself? Sure. Some nights, I could even see the noose swinging from the light fixture on the ceiling. But I figured with a few well-placed posters, I might mute the sound of my own future death cry that would sometimes flood my ears upon entering this single room with galley kitchen. Perhaps even write my masterpiece. Or at the very least, Think Great Thoughts, Dream Big Dreams like full worlds you could wander. I did none of these things here. What I did here was seethe about petty things. Count the moth deaths. Think of money.
  Ok I just reread this frantic review and it is close to being criminally insane so let me just say that this book is an excellent critique on white, heteronormative, 1% feminism. The (extremely wealthy) bunnies talk about how they “don’t need a man” and then continue to exclude and make fun of Samantha for being broke and unable to afford the same things they do. Their entire bond is that they come together to literally MAKE THE PERFECT, DREAM MAN for themselves and then preach their feminism in their pretentious liberal graduate school workshops. They pretend to know about and romanticize financial ruin and then act condescendingly upon the actually financially incapacitated, or just refuse to interact with them at all. The setting of a videos crime-infected city juxtaposes the delusion that exists within the school UGH I CANNOT RANT ABOUT THIS BOOK ENOUGH but anyways continue reading if you want I can’t promise that it will make any sense…This is genuinely one of my new favorite books of all time I mean it is GENIUS. Not one dull moment. Sorry if I accidentally spoil something I’m just so excited about the story and characters but everything about this book is just batshit insane like it follows a pretentious small liberal arts graduate student as she navigates her relationship with the other 4 women in her writing workshop (who have a creepily codependent relationship with each other and call each other Bunny) but anyways it turns out the bunnies have this weird drug-escalated witchcraft cult where they kill rabbits and turn them into the romanticized boys of their wildest fantasies, but until Samantha is initiated into their group the “created” boys turn out physically mangled or damaged but then Samantha tries to create one of thee boys and thinks she fails but it ends up actually working?? And she creates the BEST one that any of them have ever ended up making his name is Max and he has no deformities or weird habits and he is the personification of Samantha’s deep hatred for the bunnies and her simultaneous fully encompassing love for her best friend Ava (which HELLO?? THEY ARE GAY. CALL IT WHAT IT IS.) AND SO MAX DOES WHAT SAMANTHA NEVER HAD THE GUTS TO DO IN BOTH RELATIONSHIPS AND THERES THIS ONE SCENE WHERE SHE MAX AND AVA ARE SITTING AT THE TABLE EATING DINNER AND IT JUST FEELS LIKE THEY ARE ALL DIFFERENT VERSIONS OF SAMANTHAS PERSONALITY. This book is fucking crazy you never know what is real or what is imaged or if she is writing it for her graduate thesis or WHAT but just wow I had to get all my thoughts down  Oh my God!!! I loved it!! Reading this book felt like being high all the time and I just had such a great time! It was soo unpredictable and engaging. I just couldn't put it down. And if I had to, my mind kept wandering to this book.I loved every single minute of it, and that's very surprising because not once did I think that I will enjoy reading this book, until I actually read it.
  “I've never really not written, never not had another world of my own making to escape to, never known how to be in this world without most of my soul dreaming up and living in another.”
Through the story we follow Samantha, who is pursuing her writing degree in the prestigious Warren University. Her mom passed away and her father is not around. She feels completely alone and is struggling to produce some work, and yet she finds solace in her friend Ava. But then, she's invited to a soiree of this group of girls who call themselves "bunnies" and always seem to be huddled together, hugging, laughing, talking in hushed voices, and always calling each other Bunny. Samantha attends this soiree/meeting not to seem rude and falls down the rabbit hole of this cultish group. What follows is a whole world of crazy that you would NOT see coming.
  “Why do you lie so much? And about the weirdest little things?", my mother always asked me. "I don’t know", I always said. But I did know. It was very simple. Because it was a better story.”
I loved how I could never guess where the story was going or how it would end. I loved how unreliable Samantha was and we had no idea what to believe and what not to. I loved how, by then end of the book, she turns in some of her work and it seems as if her work is THIS BOOK itself! So we're sort of reading Bunny inside Bunny 😅 and they're talking about how passive this character is and everything just keeps happening to her... It was just genius! The whole writing style and the way this story moves from one scene to the next was breathtaking. I don't have enough adjectives in my vocabulary for it.  OKAAAAAY UMM IM GIVING THIS 5 STARS?!! i was NOT expecting to love this book so much bc it’s so divisive. i actually avoided this book for a while, thinking it wasn’t for me. however, i was talking to a stranger while waiting in line to meet riley sager and she loved it and said that if you have ever been in a writing class at the college level (i have), you would enjoy it. so i took her recommendation and i can say that i’m glad i did! there were many parts where i was saying YES at the satirical tone towards creative writing workshopping. i clearly loved this wild, over the top journey of a book.it reminded me of the movie midsommar in the sense that it feels like a fever dream and you don’t know what the fuck is happening but you know it’s probably not good. i love that movie so much so maybe that’s part of why i loved this book. they’re both just so strange and more bizarre more than anything, although truly horrific things happen. i would LOVE for this book adapted into a movie or tv show. the writing was just so visceral and i honestly don’t know what even to believe, which is something i love in books. i’m gonna need to go down a rabbit hole (pun intended) of theories for this one. this is one of the most unique books i’ve ever read and it was just so well executed and so meta at times. it won’t be for everyone, but it deeply explored what it means to be lonely. i both couldn’t trust and felt bad for the protagonist, samantha. i love when a book could make me feel complex emotions for one character. i could honestly say so much more about this but WOW. i will be purchasing a copy for myself so that i can go back, reread, and annotate. i will not be forgetting this one anytime soon!  This goes in the WTF category with another of my beloved favorites, The Library at Mount Char. What is it in me that is so drawn to books that hit the upper registers of the weirdness seismograph? I don't know, but I cherish it, whatever it is! I knew I liked the book when they compared the atmosphere at the college to "the lair of Cthulhu." I knew I loved it when Samantha disclosed that she has nicknamed her professor "Fosco." Count Fosco, from The Woman in White, is one of my all-time favorite villains! The writing is what really blew me away--such detailed, unexpected description. "I suppose there is just something about her gravitas, her voice like a thick mist, her long, ever gesturing white hands and her saccadic violet eyes that suggests she has distressed maidens in her basement, human livers in her fridge, that she baby talks to pet mice, attends the opera in a box seat, clapping lightly from the shadows," (54). The writing is so rich and lyrical that I felt ensnared by it. The story itself is the WTF part. I didn't really know what to expect, but was mystified and charmed in equal parts by the head-scratchingness of it all. Highly recommended if you are into bizarre tales, because baby, this is one!  what the hell???!!!!???!!! idek what to say. ik ben echt at a loss for words. dit was echt the craziest reading experience ever. 4.6? misschien 4.8 gewoon omdat ik me nog nooit zo heb gevoeld tijdens t lezen!het verhaal was zo bizar en leeg maar voelde ook weer zo vol en chaotisch. elke keer denk ik dat ik eindelijk een bepaalde interpretatie heb kunnen vormen en dan wordt t in t volgende hoofdstuk helemaal uit elkaar gehaald. ik heb t nu uitgelezen en ik heb nog steeds duizend verschillende interpretaties. ik ga zo eventjes een youtube video kijken ofzo..was eigenlijk nooit een grote fan van een first person narrator, want vooral in romance boeken geef ik echt zero shit over wat ze denken. maar in dit boek was dat echt de perfecte keuze. de protagonist was unreliable maar ook zo real en naïef echt wow nog nooit zoiets gelezen! de schrijfster heeft echt risico’s genomen en it paid off in my opinion!!! sws vind ik de schrijfstijl echt heel nice, kort en bondig, maar toch expressief genoeg dat het een compleet beeld geeft in je hoofd. misschien kan ik het beter uitleggen irl, ask me again als je me ziet! ik wil niet te veel shit reviewen want ik wil t nog spoiler free en ‘the magic’ behouden voor the girls die het nog willen lezen!! recommend!! ook al vind je t maybe echt een kut boek op t einde, rlly recommend om het een keer gelezen te hebben! feelings atm: head empty, confused, very very sad, scared :0thx 4 reading xxxxxxx  3 🌟Ok, let me explain why this book was three stars. The book comprises 3 parts. Part one of the book was disturbing and disgusting in every means. I was about to DNF it, then again, I don’t DNF a book. So I continued to read. Fortunately, in part two, things got interesting, and I loved the surreal quality of the novel. And part three of the book wrapped up everything amazingly. It was like a dream-like state while the story was being read, and the characters had a degree of credibility. Even though the slang and sex scenes didn't suit my liking, the novel still managed to capture my interest.In the book we follow, Samantha Mackey, a 25-year-old girl who is stuck in a mundane life and accompanied by her best friend Ava. Samantha is studying art in Art school and she hates her classmates whom they called Bunnies. One day, she receives an invitation to a party from Bunnies and she joins them. But when she arrives at the party, she discovers the Bunnies are in a cult of dark, twisted rituals. Even though the complete novel felt like a dark academic type of work, I don’t recommend it for the trigger warnings.  Una idea carina andata quasi del tutto sprecata, tra momenti di grande lentezza, perdita di pathos, divagazioni, poca profondità per gli elementi davvero interessanti. Peccato, perché il tema della macabra creazione di uomini / animali, tramite un sacrificio, era davvero weird e inquietante e poteva rendere molto meglio. C'era bisogno di dare tanto spazio all'amica della protagonista e al loro rapporto? Secondo me no, anche perché il rapporto appunto non provoca nessuna empatia e l'amica è più antipatica di tutte le Bunny messe insieme. Si perde molto, nell'aspettare che qualcosa succeda.Non voglio dare solo una stellina, perché l'idea del romanzo mi piaceva, ma per me è comunque un no. Non condivido l'ondata d'amore che questo romanzo sembra aver sollevato. Donna Tartt è inimitabile, Bunny.  Capisco che una buona idea, il Dark Academia, qualche riferimento a classici del genere come  Dio di illusioni  non bastino a realizzare un ottimo romanzo per quanto ci si provi.   Dobra uwaga proszę państwa TO JEST KSIĄŻKA TAKA, ŻE GŁOWA MAŁA. Użycie słowa „porąbana” w sumie dobrze pasuje zarówno do jazdy, jaką czytelniczce proponuje autorka, jak i do tego, co się w tej książce fabularnie dzieje. A dzieje się wiele. Mamy akademickie kliki, coś z horroru, dziewczynę, której „nikt nie rozumie”, pytania o to, czym jest sztuka i twórcze pisanie… Cała ta książka to jedna wielka zabawa konwencjami, tropami, gatunkami, trochę nabijanie się z „kreatywnego pisania”, a przynajmniej taka jest moja interpretacja. Mona Awad używa wszystkich możliwych do pomyślenia klisz, a już sam fakt, że miejscem akcji jest uniwersytet, a bohaterką studentka kreatywnego pisania kieruje naszĄ uwagę na pewien (jeden z wielu?) sposobów odczytania tej książki. Osobiście traktuję tę książkę właśnie jako zabawę, jako odwrócenie pewnych oklepanych zagrań literackich. Wydaje mi się, że gdyby czytać tę książkę ot, tak po prostu fabularnie to bardzo można się zmęczyć, ostatecznie dlatego dałam 4 gwiazdki, bo ta zabawa konwencją w pewnym momencie trochę się przeciągnęła, no ale zakończenie było świetne. Aha i jeszcze. Mona Awad ŚWIETNIE pisze. No nie można się oderwać. Ta książka po prostu zaprasza, by przeanalizować każde zdanie. By szukać wskazówek. Trochę tak jak na zajęciach, na które chodzi główna bohaterka. Jeżeli szukacie w literaturze dobrej zabawy i niestraszna Wam nieco obrzydliwa czarna magia (my inner Mariana Enriquez fangirl is showing) to OGROMNIE POLECAM.  Das obras mais originais que li em toda a minha vida. Um livro tão fora da caixa que acredito que a maioria das pessoas que conheço não iria gostar dele.A experiência que a autora criou, desde a história até à escrita super original, deixou-me completamente presa a este livro.Comprei-o sem saber absolutamente nada acerca da história, apenas tinha visto pessoas a comentarem que era super diferente de tudo o que já tinham lido. Sublinho por baixo!Bunny deixou-me sem ar quando o terminei. Deixou-me a pensar que é precisamente por isto que leio há tantas décadas: é para encontrar estas pérolas que se cruzam connosco e nos mostram como as palavras podem fazer coisas absolutamente incríveis.   I’m... not sure what to rate this, and even less sure what to say. It’s either complete madness or brilliance. The book lost itself around halfway through. I got to 55% and thought to myself, “surely this can’t get any more messed up? But it absolutely has to, I’m only halfway in.” I was wrong. Next thing I knew I was 75% in and nothing particularly shocking or plot-moving happened. And then of course, I finished the book and felt no resolve at all. The plot? Nonexistent. But I’m not even mad about it. It was such a ride and I honestly loved the author’s tone and style. I’m not sure I’ll ever see the word “bunny” the same way again.   this book was CRAZY‼️ A lot of the time it was really meta because the main characters are all writers who write and critique some crazy stuff and lots of the time it seemed like they could be talking about the book itself🤯 It was pretty difficult to get in to because there was a lot of magical realism that i couldn't quite recognize at first and it relied a lot on the audiences capability to believe in whatever was happening🥸 Once i allowed myself to accept the magical concepts it was a lot more enjoyable. The third part of the book was the best in my opinion because it was genuinely scary and it had a crazy plot twist and it ended well with some final character development😮‍💨 I liked this book but I probably wouldnt recommend it unless you are a horror or magical realism stan🤐🥱  oh well. it's different.so, most of the time while i was reading this book i was either bored or confused. half of the time i didn't even know what was going on because everything just seemd like a big concoction of randomly chosen words to create a somewhat interesting storyline. the writing is very simple, nothing out of the ordinary but mixed with this absolutely compulsive story it is not too bad. i was just thinking "what the f- is even going on" the whole time which is not fun in any way.if you enjoy weird, maybe scary, stories about an outsider teenager this might be the book for you. if not, stay away i am begging you.  id give it six stars if i could. this book was genius and i loved every minute of it! what started out as a psychosexual, campy horror/mazelike lucid dream turned into quite a sad story about loneliness and taking refuge in art. surprisingly touching, delightfully original, and intricately detailed.   4,5. Chciałabym coś napisać, ale mam po tej książce tak przyjemną papkę z mózgu, że chyba jeszcze przez chwilę się tym nacieszę. W sumie, po recenzjach wielu osób, spodziewałam się jakiejś odklejonej psychodeli, czyste wajbsy i nic więcej, a tu mamy ładnie napisanego tripa z szerokim polem do interpretacji. Me like it &lt;3   This was crazy but I loved it. The writing is impeccable and draws you in right away. Every time I finished a chapter I wanted to keep going. The ending was also bonkers and extremely sad, but also gave me the perfect amount of 'bitter sweet' with the final moment. Great start to my 2023 reading year!  4.5yaaas queen, go ahead explain us nothing!!this is exactly the kind of weird, crazy shit that i like! truly "dark" academiamy head is spinning. never have i read a book with such an unreliable narrator, absolutely loved it though.  3.5 stars ~From a slow build, unpredictable character interactions, absurdist consequences and a surprising touch of magical folk realism sprinkled in? It made me realize I haven’t quite read something like this before. Experiencing the protagonist fall into a cult and the consequences of deep loneliness (all in an affluent university setting) ,along with the story clearly being a discussion on the jarring isolation that comes with female sexuality? Its such a fascinating story when you go back to analyze it, I just wish the first half didn’t drag as much as it did. (? Stars~ That was .. a ride. I need to think about this for a week lmao)  What the fuck did I just read? this shit was wild and so bizarre and im very confused about what i just read but also that was amazing???????!!!!!!!!!!!! this was so fucking awful i think i loved it  this was.... an experience. I finished it in less than 3 hours. truly a mindfucking addictive writing and plot. I have no thoughts to be honest. I think my only criticism is I wished we've gotten more max. like he was interesting and just how we don't exactly understand his character? like really WHO is he? bizarre. ANYWAYS. I enjoyed this very creepy insane cultist sorority sister vibe book.  3.75* ik ga zelfs niet beginnen aan het proberen uitleggen van dit boek, I did like it tho here are some initial thoughts:1) this is the fastest i have finished a book in a while now, which is a testament to how very well-written it is. awad's writing is engaging, feverish, and ultimately fantastic. particularly enjoyed her use of similes and the way she evoked mood. i think fans of dare me might like this one a lot.2) i like that this book defies neat categorization, that we're supposed to read in between the lines and decide what the point is for ourselves. what's real? what isn't? does it matter? feels like a response to the secret history for women that are a little sad.3) i do not like samantha as a character but i enjoyed reading about her so much, which is again a testament to the quality of the writing.  I'm not even sure if 3 stars is what I'm feeling right now, because this was such a strange, surreal reading experience lol. The writing style was really captivating in a lot of ways, but I also couldn't wait to finally be finished. In summary: WTF. such a funnnnn time  dnf 15%Нет, друзья. Эта трава мне не по зубам Yo such a weird book! It’s a mixture between “Secret History” and “Midsummer,” like nothing I’ve ever read. What the heck!!!!!!!! If you’re an arts student and want to read 300+ pages roasting your entire personality, read this. Okuduğum en garip kitaptı. Yazım tarzından tutun yaşanan olaylara, her şey o kadar değişikti ki. Bazen durup ben ne oluyorum demek zorunda kaldım. Olayların nereye gittiği hakkında en ufak bir fikrim yoktu ve bu, kitabı daha akıcı ve okunası yapıyordu.  This book was absolutely unhinged in the absolute best way. I genuinely cannot believe someone was able to think this up. At no point did I know what was happening or what was about to happen. Amazing. Absolutely batshit insane fever dream of a book I loved it Fucking. WILD! Booktube review coming soon. My favorite kind of WTFF and gave me Scream Queens vibes through and through. This book is a trip.  This might be the strangest book I’ve ever read, and that’s really saying something.  “Why do you lie so much? And about the weirdest little things?", my mother always asked me. "I don’t know", I always said. But I did know. It was very simple. Because it was a better story.”This requires a reread if I can ever be bothered to do one.  What a ride. That’s all. wow beret zryty4,25/5⭐️ DNFI tried. I made it 90 pages. But I’m quitting it 😬👎🏻It’s not bad or even that disturbing - yet - just weird &amp; feels like nothing is happening. But I’m still going to go to book club to hear what ppl think!   Wtf, fun, and also meh  This was absolutely insane. If you want to read an unhinged horror book where you struggle to make comments about it because of that, read this one  hmmmmmmmmmmm… this one is difficult because it feels so brilliant, absolutely genius, yet so convoluted. The writing was both gorgeous and too much. Totally recommend. Totally binged. Just an element or two off for me.Full review soon.  Bunny is the literary equivalent of an acid trip. After finishing, I'm not sure what was real or what was my drug-fuelled imagination. I'm not sure if I had the best time of my life or something more akin to a blood-spattered car crash. I enjoyed it but it was also hella confusing.The novel hooked me with its hilarity and strong voice from the first pages. Samantha does a great job of setting up our perception of her fellow graduate students in all their strange child-like demeanour and bubbly affection.
  "I miss you, bunny," they say to each other in their fake little girl voices, even though they are standing right fucking next to each other, and I can taste the hate in their hearts like iron on my tongue.
The satire was on point. I'm an undergrad student studying creative writing, and honestly, a lot of it was relatable. The ridiculous manner of group critiques. MFA programs squeezing out identical copies of writers like cookies in a factory line. I could go on.The plot is a bit like a fever dream—complete with frenetic energy and lots of action and a sense of deep unreality. There was always something to be fascinated and worried about. The main problem I had was that I never connected with the protagonist.Samantha is a sad character full of need, with nothing and no-one to latch herself onto, like a set of teeth grotesquely opening and closing on air. She's passive and I didn't quite understand all her actions (or lack thereof). Rather than feeling sympathy, I just felt an uncomfortable distance from her.She is an unreliable narrator who blurs her imagination with reality. Her inner thoughts become voiced dialogue that the other characters respond to, making us question the line between what's in her head and what's out in the real world. The unreliability made the story strange and compelling.The most fascinating part of the book is its satirical take on female friendship dynamics. I liked seeing how Samantha both reviled the Bunnies and desperately wanted to be one of them. It was the most real part of the novel.
  I tell myself I have to fight this—remember you hate them, remember they hate you—but all at once I fail. I succumb. I allow the sick need that no degree of revulsion can kill to be picked up out of the cold, wet dark and petted. I melt into it, their hug, allowing, nay, willing myself to be crushed. I become one with the blob. Or as close to one as I can become.
Honestly, a lot of the weird shit that happens was just so much fun. I enjoyed the big reveal when Samantha realises the horrific things the Bunnies are up to. But my lips are sealed.The final part tumbles into itself, runs downhill, spreads like a dark smear of blood. It had an inevitable gravity. I rushed through it, drowning in confusion and excitement and dawning terror. Unfortunately, I was disappointed by the conclusion.While I adore open endings, this one was less an ajar door inviting us to speculate and ponder, and more of a door ripped off its hinges. By the end, Samantha hasn't really changed as a character or undergone a significant arc of growth. The ending tries to be smart with its final ambiguous line, but—when I actually thought about it—I realised that the ending offers us nothing.Bunny is such an experimental book. It had all the makings of greatness: a strong voice, a frenetically-paced plot, both horror and hilarity in spades. However, its lacklustre ending was its undoing. I would recommend this one for a fun and wacky ride, but not as a stellar example of dark academia (which I, sadly, had been hoping for).The Good: Frenetic pacing. Hilarious. Very strong voice. Inventive and fun. Ratcheting up of intrigue and stakes in the final part. Exploring the spiky dynamics of female friendship. An unreliable narrator who made the story strange and compelling.The Bad: Hard to connect to the protagonist. Too many unanswered questions at the end. Unsatisfying conclusion. A writing style littered with specific references that could put off the reader.Book Blog | Writer Website | Twitter | Instagram  A dizzying, disorienting read that I will never forget. Some of the most unique takes on themes such as fitting in, loneliness, what home means, what love is, and what it means to be an artist to name a few. This book isn’t going to be for everyone. Frankly, you either get it or you don’t.  The reason I picked up this book is because everyone said it's like Heathers (1988). I love Heathers. It's a top-notch dark comedy. Murdering the cool people in the high-school to mess up with the power dynamics. It's so funny. While, this book is not completely Heathers; there are semblances in it. Like the fact that they both have a female powered clique. The atmosphere of this book is very eerie and it's totally engrossing but I had a hard time figuring out what's real and what's not. It's hard segregating both of them. I still have no idea whether Samantha is completely bonkers or it's all a drug induced delirium.  was so confused for so much of this book but really enjoyed it even while wondering what has happening. I felt so many emotions and was so happy with the ending. only giving 4 stars for some animal violence imagery I was not expecting and could have lived without but enjoyed this book overall and know it will stick with me.   2022 februaryI really loved this book! The writing style was beautiful and this hole book was so unique and different. Actually I'm a bit confused about the book so I'm sure I'm gonna reread it soon just to understand better.I read this book for Katie Colson's book club and I feel this is a perfect book for a book club.2022 marchI'm so happy I reread this book! There was so many thing I didn't understand the first time that I finally understand. I feel I liked even better this time!  i don’t know what the fuck kind of witchcraft schizophrenic fever-dream shit that was… but i liked it?  This book was super weird, but unfortunately not in a good way. The first part of this book was actually fantastic (which is why it got 2 stars and not 1), I was so into the story and couldn’t wait to see all of the weird stuff that this writing cohort/cult got up to. And when the twist happened, I went with it for a bit. I didn’t necessarily think it was going to be bad, so I gave it a shot. But then the story started to unravel and by the end I just couldn’t wait for it to be over. I get why people loved it, but it wasn’t for me.   genuinely dont think a book has hurt my head this much, i liked it, but wow was i lost  Sometimes this felt like the best bad trip I've ever had. I received absolutely nothing I expected, and I'm very happy about that. I was expecting some simply weird for the sake of weirdness story, some 'what the fuck', 'haha that was weird' shallow type of plot, and I got a touching stage of human loneliness and madness. Fever dream at its best. Mona Awad I love you.  3.5?I have no idea I have mixed feelings about this book. The author seems quite talented. She created a lot of vivid imagery with few words. My problem was less with the actual story and more with how it was presented. Bunny was like one long, disjointed, psychotic nightmare. I love dark fantasy and horror but this was just a mess for me and the bunnies (especially Cupcake) annoyed the living hell out of me. Actually every character annoyed me. Again – the author’s writing was good and maybe I’ll risk reading another of her books to see if the chaotic presentation was a one-time occurrence. I know a lot of people loved Bunny. I can’t recommend it. I grudgingly rounded up from 2.5 because there were very good moments.  I don't think I have ever been so angry at a book. I know I could get butchered for this because Bunny has a cultish following and if you don't love it "you just don't understand its profundity" and maybe I don't, maybe I'm too stupid to understand it but I just didn't like it and that's my takeaway.I made a list of everything that annoyed me as I was reading:- There are so many spelling and grammar mistakes? This book has been out for about four years and I got my copy brand new from a book store recently so really they should have been edited out by now. I'm not talking things like misusing an Oxford comma, I'm talking "It's s your bunny" and "I guess you're been hanging out with Eleanor" and straight up missing out opening speech marks.- The main character has been accepted into what I believe is meant to be one of the most prestigious and exclusive arts schools in the country, yet her narrative voice is so juvenile (I don't think that is the word I am looking for, but it doesn't exactly ooze creativity). Perhaps this point is a little pretentious of me, but it just became so unbelievable to me when the extent of her creative mind is given to us in sentences like this: "The city earns all the names I come up with for it ... RancidAquariumLand. Jailville. BlackSkyGrayEarth. ZombieCity."- I just hated her taste in men to be honest. Why was her teacher constantly described as "maned" in like every sentence and why do all the women yearn for the predator-prey dynamic? Also, characters are not given any description beyond these epithet-like adjectives (we are reminded that Ava is "swathed in mesh" in every scene she appears in) and it didn't feel like a skilful use of repetition to me, it just got on my nerves.- David Bowie didn't have two different coloured eyes. Just a petty factual inaccuracy that I wanted to add in. But that does lead me on to the sentence "Eyes that are profoundly every colour and no colour at all." That just doesn't make sense and I know the whole book doesn't make sense so this isn't the thing to pick out when trying to prove that, but this kind of fake deep lyrical prose just makes me mad.- One of the main conflicts in this book is women fighting with women because of a boy. The Bunnies are also united through their obsession with boys and their desire to find/create the perfect boy. There are better things to spend your time doing in my opinion.- TW for sh/bodily harm and mild spoilers in this one: I am not a fan of mental health being used as a trope if not being used to explore its wider implications and stuff idk. That's just personal taste but it's what really turned me off this book. And when Caroline's extensive scars were suddenly exposed and it was implied that they were self-inflicted due to her obsession with a boy? And possibly a fake boy at that? I should have really checked a trigger warnings list first because wow that would have put me off.I want to give it 2 stars but I genuinely can't think of a positive thing to say except the fact that I finished it. But that was just because people raved about the ending, yet I despised the ending with everything in me. And I didn't read it for like three weeks because I was just putting off picking it up. I would really like to have a genuine discussion with someone else who has read this and liked it though.  What a weird, genre-hopping, twisty plot romp of a book! This book is some thematic combination of Heathers (even the main character's middle name is Heather), The Craft, Jawbreaker, any episode of GIRLS when Hannah goes to her writing workshops, and reads like a truly fucked up version of a Francesca Lia Block novel. In other words, I loved it. Falling into this book really was like falling down the rabbit hole of female friendships, frenemies, grad school, poverty, imposter syndrome, stress, and the emotional burden of creativity. I don't know if this book hit so hard because I went to graduate school, or just that anything graduate school related is a raw nerve with me. Either way, I fully acknowledge that my own experiences tainted my reading of BUNNY, so take what I say as you will. We meet our narrator, Samantha Heather Mackey, while she is in her final year of her post-graduate work in a creative writing program at a prestigious east coast university called, wait for it, Warren (get it?) that happens to be overrun with cute floppy bunnies. She's surrounded by insufferable peers - archetypes of late 20s girlhood in upscale Hot Topic and Hell Bunny clothing - that collectively refer to each other as 'Bunny' and seem way too comfortable with one another.“How fiercely they gripped each other’s pink-and-white bodies, forming a hot little circle of rib-crushing love and understanding it took my breath away. … All four of their glossy mouths making squealing sounds of monstrous love that hurt my face.” (Page 3)We get the sense that this cattiness is a two-way street when Samantha complains about the Bunnies to her gothy friend, Ava, a Warren drop-out. That is until Samantha and the Bunnies have one final workshop together and she's drawn into their claustrophobic and cupcake scented world via an invitation to attend a "Smut Salon" at one of their McMansion homes. Samantha has a surprisingly wonderful time at this event and begins accepting additional invitations from the Bunnies, against the advice of Ava. What follows is a really strange, self-reflective story that is difficult to put into words. It's a faerie tale, it's a satire, it's a handbook, a cautionary tale, it's yours to interpret like a tarot spread. Awad is critical in her writing and cuts directly to the heart of what makes a story work. She sets the reader's expectations up incredibly high and still somehow manages to surpass them. Much in the same way you were fascinated by the Lululemon Murders (admit it), I know you'll dig BUNNY. Also, can we talk about the magnet, mug, and "Smakey"?? I'm dying over here the more I think about the intricacies of this book. BUNNY is the perfect canned champagne, book club pick - just saying.  I honestly had no clue what I wanted to rate this the entire time I was reading it... but I can't deny Mona Awads ingenuity and talent. I had to give it 5 stars. This book was BIZARRE and campy in the best way. Normally I don't like books that aren't super straightforward, but this book is an exception to that rule. There was something so fun about analyzing this and coming up with theories. I don't think the author wants us to fully understand it... and I had so much fun reading different interpretations... some I hadn't even thought of. There were definitely times in this book that made me feel uneasy... like I wasn't sure what was coming next. Her writing is so eccentric that I didn't know what she was going to come up with... and honestly, it made me feel a bit uncomfortable at times. That is not something I feel very often when I read.. so props to Mona Awad.  This is my personal interpretation of the novel and you do not have to agree. If you have a different opinion, I’d love to hear your thoughts!*spoiler warning* Bunny is a psychological horror novel narrated by a college student named Samantha who, one day, gets involved with a cult-like group of girls who call each other Bunny. On the surface, Bunny follows a loner becoming apart of a mystical circle, starting to participate in their murderous rituals. However, Bunny is so, so much more. At its core, it is written from the perspective of a schizophrenic woman. Samantha comes from a financially unstable background, her mother being an alcoholic (and eventually dying), barely having any relatives left. To deal with the lack of support in her life, she begins to write stories. But other people start telling her that her stories are too intense, her imagination too wild - and this passion seems to continue into adulthood, only more drastically. Samantha feels so lonely and misunderstood that she commences seeing people who, in actuality, do not exist (e.g. Ava and Max) and partaking in occurrences that did not really happen (the Bunny rituals). This interpretation could be concluded when Samantha hears a woman reading aloud a list of symptoms of schizophrenia in chapter 26. “Whispered into the nape of my neck […], taking the words right out of not my mouth, but my mind.” Or when Samantha expects the Bunnies to tell her to leave. “Fucking leave. Just leave. Why can’t you? says a woman’s voice in my ear. Slightly bullying. Losing patience. Slipping away. Ava’s voice. My voice”It is Ava’s voice and Samantha’s simultaneously because Ava is her hallucination that stands for everything she desires to be (the same applies to Max who says everything Samantha has written into a notebook before. His conversations are filled with Samantha’s thoughts because he’s, surprise, surprise, a hallucination). Due to the detailed focus on Samantha’s perception of the external world, you feel as though you are putting a puzzle together, figuring out a murder case - which is why all the distributed information throughout the story and the plot unpredictability keep you on the edge of your seat (unsettlingly so).At the beginning, Awad’s prose begins as a root stuck underground, but as the story progresses, it transforms itself into a flamboyant tree. Eye-catching, captivating and obsessional. All in all, I’d rate this haunting read 4.5/5 and I am so glad that I started 2023 with this book.  3.5 stelle.Libro particolare: arranca a partire, la prima metà è lenta ma non in senso negativo; poi s'incaglia verso i tre quarti... E alla fine da di matto (di nuovo, non in modo necessariamente negativo).Ho apprezzato lo stile, anche se riconosco che la sua particolarità può essere sia un pregio che un difetto — è quel tipo di stile che o ami o odi, nessuna mezza misura; per una volta, lo stile inutilmente aulico pieno di metafore bizzarre ha ragione d'esistere, donandici fin da subito uno scorcio interessante sulla psiche contorta e iperattiva della protagonista. Ho adorato il fatto che i flussi di pensiero della protagonista non fossero slegati dallo scorrere del tempo, come spesso si vede in certi romanzi: se Samantha si perde nei suoi pensieri per interi paragrafi, vuol dire che nella narrazione stanno trascorrendo minuti durante i quali lei fissa il vuoto in silenzio, e la gente attorno a lei reagisce di conseguenza. Samantha mi è piaciuta molto, è un personaggio complesso con pregi e difetti plausibili e coerenti tra loro, ed è impossibile non empatizzare con lei.La trama non spicca per originalità se non verso metà e poi nel finale. La creazione dei ragazzi dei sogni non è nulla di particolarmente nuovo, ma la declinazione lievemente splatter della questione mi è piaciuta. la parte finale è molto d'effetto, il plot twist su Ava è ben gestito che se forse era un po' prevedibile (ma l'autrice è brava a distrarre il lettore dagli indizi che lei stessa ha seminato, quindi il lettore, ben immerso nella mente di Samantha, arriva a quel punto e facilmente ne rimane spiazzato) e è ben gestita l'opposizione tra la caduta delle Bunny e il trionfo di Samantha — le egocentriche, chiuse Bunny sono distrutte come gruppo e persone dalla più perfetta creazione partorita dalle loro manie di grandezza, quella creazione che in un primo momento era sembrata un sogno fatto realtà, la coronazione di un progetto sudato; Samantha, specularmente, vince contro tutto e tutti (compresa sé stessa) rifiutando il sogno ad occhi aperti che ha coltivato per mesi e distruggendo la creazione perfetta di cui lei è la principale artefice.Rimane irrisolto il grande mistero di come e perché queste ragazze possano plasmare la materia e imfonderci una sorta di anima rudimentale; ok la spezia, ma come spiegazione è molto misera... Lmao wtf was this book. So good, so bizarre. Plus the parody of the litfic world was really funny. Hard to rec to people because it's so ODD but I loved it 😂 Bunny is such a strange, wild ride. When I finished reading I felt like I'd awoken from some kind of fever dream, but I also enjoyed myself? 
  “Why do you lie so much? And about the weirdest little things?", my mother always asked me. "I don’t know", I always said. But I did know. It was very simple. Because it was a better story.
Samantha Heather Mackey is an outsider in her small University programme. The rest of her cohort are a clique of girls who spend most of their time squealing and calling each other Bunny. When she's invited to join the group, she finds herself drawn deeper and deeper into their sinister world of monstrous creations.
  “Can I take your coat?” Cupcake offers. I turn to her. She’s looking at me so hopefully. So willing to take a coat I’m not wearing, I almost want to give her my skin.
I'm not even sure how to go about reviewing this book. It definitely had a satirical element to it, and I can understand the comparisons to Mean Girls and Heathers with the cliquey element. It's like if you took those things and accidentally poured in an entire bottle of 'Bizzare'. I found Samantha incredibly unlikeable, but she was also well rounded enough to be understandable. She's fighting intense loneliness that's brought out in a lot of bad decisions. There are also some interesting themes here: loneliness, academia, cliques, pretentiousness, patriarchy, power. The disjointed dream-like feel of the book might have diluted the strength of them sometimes, but they still managed to shine through. I also hope I'm not the only one who got heavy sapphic vibes towards the end with Ava. Overall, weird, but in a fun way.CW: Animal Cruelty, Sex, Cults, Death, Gore, Body Horror, Drug and Alcohol use, use of R-word, sexual violence, self-harmIf you like horror, fantasy, and sci-fi you should check out my Blog! You could also follow me on Twitter and Instagram.  Woah. This book was not what I expected, actually, there would be nothing I could've thought that the book wouldn't have surpassed. I had mixed feelings when I started the book but I'm very happy I picked it up.Part 1 of the book had some of the best writing I've ever read. Apart from the storyline and character frame being spectacular, the gothic and dark writing had me swooning. I'll be reading the highlighted bits again and again for a long time. The introduction was really good, it built up a sort of base that later became so much more. The book held the creepiness, not of moving in the dark and hearing swarms of bees but what you would see in other people daily. Part 2 I'll say started a bit boring but then when you start looking for subtexts and start making predictions of what'll happen next. It picks the pace up next. And soon you realise that this indeed is a horror book. The idea was very creative but actually felt under explored. I felt there were some loose ends that could be tied but I guess it's a book that focuses on what happens next and not on what led them here. Part 3 was a rollercoaster. I was surprised and I loved it. Again, the central idea felt a bit unexplored but the writing and twists held up pretty good. The ending was pretty good but I suppose it lacked some flair in some parts that I feel went ahead without enough consequences. The ending felt a bit flat for the Bunnies. Though I couldn't put the book down when I started part 3 and had to complete the book even though it was 4 am.The concept of the book was something different and the writing did fair to it. Maybe tone a bit down the literary references but I suppose tons of pop references have taken over a lot of contemporary books nowadays. It may feel underwhelming at times but it catches up soon. It has its wtf moments and they're executed very well. All I'll say that if you're having doubts if it's worth a read, it definitely is. It hooks you and the writing is too good. Really good.  Bunny è un connubio fra il genere weird ed una macabra commedia americana con elementi splatter.Samantha frequenta una prestigiosa università per artisti ma è una outsider. Il suo desiderio più grande è quello di entrare in confidenza con le Bunny, le popolari, bellissime, inarrivabili ragazze che sembrano perfette.Ma nulla è come sembra...Questo per me è stato un esperimento, perchè non amo il weird e lo stile onirico. Purtroppo, ancora una volta, non sono riuscita ad apprezzare un libro del genere.Bunny mi ha confusa durante tutta la lettura ed anche sul finale, non ne ho apprezzato lo stile (astruso, poco chiaro, ripetitivo) e in generale non amo i libri che mi lasciano a fine lettura con più domande di quante ne risolvano.Inoltre ho provato una leggera antipatia per Samantha, troppo apatica e passiva, e per tutti i personaggi secondari.Inoltre, nonostante possa sembrarlo, Bunny non è uno YA. I temi presenti ed il modo di svilupparli lo rendono più un NA, se non del tutto un Adult.Tuttavia ho apprezzato il modo esplicito dell'autrice di criticare e parodiare il mondo degli "artisti" impegnati a distinguersi per poi omologarsi ed il processo creativo e di scrittura del mondo editoriale che guarda a uno stile pomposo per poi ritrovarsi fra le mani una trama vuota.In questo la Awad è stata geniale perchè ha creato un libro esattamente di questo genere, contemporaneamente criticandone i ridicoli tropi.Insomma, per me la storia è un no, ma con un grande sì alle intenzioni.Se però vi piacciono i libri onirici e che sembrano sotto effetti di stupefacenti, questo fa per voi... e chissà, durante la lettura potreste sentirvi anche un po' strafatti di acidi in un covo di artisti!  Did I like it? Yes. Am I surprised? Also yes. What the fuck was this book, bunny?That's the review. I really want to say that this book was a waste of my time and that I never want to see it again but that wouldn't be fair of me. I enjoyed some parts of this book but it started to bore me around 3/4 and after that I basically had to force myself to finish it. I enjoyed the whole "this author definitely wrote this on drugs" thing and it was actually captivating at the start but after 200 pages it started to get repetitive and boring. My conclusion: absolutely mind blowing plot but it would be so much better 100 pages shorter.  Instead of rating this a one star, I upped it to a two star… and that is ONLY because I loved the dark academia vibe. Unfortunately, this is the only thing I enjoyed. I genuinely don’t know wtf I just finished reading. And from other reviews I’ve come across, I’m not alone in having this logic. Bunny is like Mean Girls meets some supernatural/cosmic/witchcraft-y/cultish type of theme, dressed up in dark academic aesthetic. The attempt to intersect all of this was unsuccessful and very messy. As I’m writing this review, I’m still trying to process what even happened here. There is zero storyline or plot. There is no fulfilling ending. I literally don’t know what else to tell you, lol. It’s weird, but not in the best way… more in an unsatisfied, puzzled way. Why did I continue to read this after it dragged me by my legs for days? I’m not quite sure. Good luck with this one if you choose to read it! Let me know if you’ve found its meaning.  Edit: I'm revisiting this book and changed my star rating! I can definitely appreciate it a bit more now."What we see or seem is but a dream within a dream." - Edgar Allan Poe. Heather meets The Craft meets Frankenstein in this twisted tale. Part 1 was really strong, with a nice transition into the Bunny cult. Readers can think "hmm, which parts are real and which parts are imagined? Is Ava real? Is Jonah real?". Part 2 however really dragged on and felt a bit pointless. And the writing continued to be too much, lacking direction, the descriptions too abstract. I didn't understand the purpose of this book until I read other's interpretation of it; I think the book is one big metaphor for the writing experience, and you can see that in Part 2 when the Bunnies create a bunch of self destructive men. Overall a weird, mind bending book.  **Find my full review HERE at Sci-Fi &amp; Scary.**Review Excerpt:This book is Weird with a capital W. It reads kind of like Tina Fey, off her face on acid, writing an adult version of Mean Girls with Heathers running on a constant loop in the background. This is such a gorgeous trip of a book. The horror here is very much of the unsettling, surreal variety rather than anything more obviously terrifying, but the beautiful language and the completely bizarre plot got under my skin in ways I can’t really describe. This book isn’t going to be everyone’s bag, but I think it’s well worth checking out regardless. I can promise you haven’t read anything similar!  Mixed thoughts on this one! I probably should structure my thoughts into more coherent sentences and paragraphs, but I guess this is better than nothing &gt;:)Things that I liked:-the bunnies (I loved how each of their personalities/aesthetics were tied to their own specific, pretentious styles of writing) -the roasting of MFA programs-the experiments being used as a metaphor for the creative process-Jonah :)Things that I didn’t like:-Samantha (felt majorly underdeveloped. Is she really as edgy as we are supposed to believe she is??)-the atmosphere: I think it was supposed to feel creepy and intense, but the magical realist elements never captivated me-"bunny”-repetitiveness- lost a lot of impact by the second half  Another example of my love for freaking weird books and it was awesome. Dark academia vibes plus a "what the hell?" plot. Magnificent. Add in some mean girl action and a bit of a fever dream narrative and I am ALL set. It's a little Heathers with a touch of Donnie Darko.If you like weird books, jump right in. Don't read the synopsis, just go for it. I went in not knowing a whole lot and it was just the way I needed it. If I had known much about where the plot was going it would have taken a lot of the fantastic gut punch out of the plot. As it was, I was in a perpetual state of "did that just happen?" while having a huge smile plastered on my face. Does that say something twisted about me? Because man this was dark and creepy and I loved every second of it.  I enjoyed this book so much more than I expected!I loved the prose and the unique voice of the main character, so I definitely want to check out more by this author. The character's interactions were both hilarious and pretty creepy, I liked the combination.A really strong point of this novel is the fact that it leaves room for interpretation while not being too vague about what's going on. Compared to (for me) similar novels like "Annihilation" or "The vegetarian", the story of the bunnies was so much more intriguing and really made me think about life. I'd give it a go, but it's probably not for everyone.  Watched Tales from the Crypt way too much to find any of this disturbing… It wants to be witty and meta but, as a whole, failed to convince me that these are nothing more than a bunch of high-school whiny mean girls… 
  Um, what the fuck is this, please? This makes no sense. This is coy and this is willfully obscure and no one but Victoria will ever get this. I would in fact need to live inside Victoria’s spoiled, fragmented, lazy, pretentious little mind to get it. And who apart from us, apart from me, is going to be willing to do that? To work all night with a Victoria Decoder? Who would even care to?
Same!  this was so fun and literally such a trip! the writing is captivating and it’s an easy read. the scenery, aesthetics and the characters are so incredibly beautiful, it’s 100% my shit! i’m obsessed with the bunnies specially cupcake. honestly all of them are interesting and i love their names (creepy doll, vignette…? so cool!) and their quirks. oh god… i’m getting carried away but you don’t get it, this was one of my favorite reads this year! if you like weird, culty and dark shit but also love feminine things, pastel colors, frilly dresses and cupcakes, you’re gonna eat this shit up! 🎼🎀🩰👻🌷🧌🐇🍰💝  4.5 stars!! WOW. I don’t have the right words to even begin to describe how amazing this book is. It is definitely one of the most unique and creative storylines I’ve ever come across. It took me maybe about 50 pages to get used to Awad’s writing style, but once I did I was completely sucked in and so so hooked. This book made me laugh and it also kept me on the edge of my seat. I felt like I was reading a cult-y take on Mean Girls (which is a dream combo imo). I couldn’t put this one down and I truly wanted to tear up when I finished it. I didn’t want this one to end. One of my favorites of the whole year. Couldn’t recommend enough!!   This had to be the strangest, most unusual book I've ever read--and I loved every word of it! Samantha is a graduate student at a prestigious college where she's working on becoming a writer. She has one class that contains only her and the "Bunnys," for women who look alike, act alike, and call each other "Bunny." Samantha finds them to be utterly annoying, until they invite her to a party and she gets to see what the "Bunnys" are really up to. This book left me with my mouth hanging open and wondering what in the hell I had just read!  My thoughts are just very messy right now. It definitely reminded me of the movie Heathers, so if you like that vibe you might like this. At some point, I felt like I was reading a nightmare unfurl, which was probably a choice by the author but I didn't love it. I didn't hate it either, it was just a bizarre experience. Very well written though, I highlighted many quotes for sure because of how beautifully built the wording was. But yeah... All in all: weird book. Great moments and others not so great. It was worth giving it a chance though.  The comparisons to Heathers and Frankenstein are apropos. Funny and terrifying at the same time. you feel like you've read something like this before, then Awad's story takes you to places you wouldn't expect. I was never really sure I liked the Samantha, the main protagonist, but I always got where she was coming from. One of those books I'll read a second time now that I "get" what's going on. This review was vague so as to avoid spoilers. Highly recommended. Get a Bunny of your own.  Second Read - June 20225/5 starsOh, how much I love and appreciate this book now. I will admit I didn't really comprehend what I read the first time I picked this up bc I was dumb at that moment. Anyways, I'm kinda seriously obsessed with this book now (I might reread it again)!First Read - October 20204.5/5 starsGuys, I'm actually speechless. This was definitely something - 100% agree with those that said it fucked with their brains because I feel the same way.  I felt very *recognized* by this book and I didn't like it. And by "didn't like it", I mean it was an absolute riot and I loved it. The way Awad writes about desire and loneliness and purpose without really writing about any of this things directly is mesmerizing. I rwad this book during a chaotic time in my life, so I couldn't dive right in, but every time I did sit down to read it I couldn't out it down. Exceptionally unique and strange and scary.  What did I just read??! 🤯😱Bizarre, dark, funny, &amp; imaginative… this book ended up being such a fun read! My brain went absolutely wild imagining everything. If this were a movie it is one I would want to watch over and over and over again. Definitely reread material. THIS right here is what I LOVE in a fiction novel. No lies Bunny, this book has made my list of the top 5 fave books I’ve EVER read. 🖤 Obsessed.  Mean girls sotto acidi..Ho chiuso il libro pensando "Che cosa ho letto?"Diciamo che è un libro MOLTO particolare, un mix tra Frankestein e Mean Girls.Mi è piaciuto? L'idea è abbastanza originale, non ho mai letto un libro del genere, ma alcune parti non mi hanno convinta molto.  Whelp, WTF did I just read? Did I love it? Did I hate it? I have no fricking idea. Sometimes, the writing was beautiful. descriptive, clever. Sometimes it was repetitive and condescending. And the storyline itself? I have no idea what was real, what was not real, if it was magic or drugs or imagination or mental illness. So WEIRD! Yet I couldn't stop reading it. I don't know what that means.  This was weirddddddd. I tried to hang with it, hoping for a little more Heathers meets Clueless vibe, but in the end it felt more like a literature class project where the writer was told to just write something different. I didn’t get the point and I was very put off by the pride and the style and even the plot. Some people will like this. I didn’t.   holy shita little bit Moshfeghian ("because at Warren, the Body is all the rage. as though everyone in the academic world has just now discovered that they are vesseled in precarious, fastly decaying houses of bone and flesh and my god, what material."), a little bit Mean Girls, a lot of blood magic &amp; just so seductively bonkers in the best way  (3.5)Everyone's been mentioning about how weird this book is, and Bunny is definitely the weirdest and most bizarre book that I've ever read. I'm not even sure if I fully understand everything that happened in this book but I love it nonetheless. I just wasn't a fan of Awad's writing style is all.  4.5⭐️ I loved this book. I love a horror book that just goes absolutely crazy &amp; has so many wtf moments. BUT Bunny has all of that plus a lot of heart and sadness at the core of the story. This book is not going to be for everyone but it was for me! Also the audiobook was incredible, the narrator did an excellent job of differentiating all the characters.   If you want to read a book that leaves you perplexed and unsure of what just happened, step right up. I couldn't tell if this was the working of a college student's frazzled mind or an underground sadistic ladies' club. before i even finished this i wanted to re-read it. by the end you're still not certain if everything that occurs actually happened the way it appears on the page, thanks to samantha's unreliability as a narrator, but it's oh-so-satisfying regardless.  Did not finish This seemed so clever and great. But apart from a little satire in the first half, I didn’t enjoy it at all. I couldn’t finish it. Perhaps the audiobook added to my annoyance. It was mean girls on crack. I am sure that many people will enjoy this, though.   Re-read update 10/26/2021Still a weird af book in the best way. Definitely re-readable and I have so many new theories swirling around this time. ------Wtf did I even just read??I’m not mad, though.  Thought this was going to be a 5 star spooky read at first but then it started to meander a bit. Still great fun though and I’m glad the dude in my local Waterstones recommended it for my October reading.  dnf at 15%, i wanted to give this a chance but nope, not my book at all, i just knew that i would regret wasting my time if i continued. and i read some spoiler reviews and let's just say i'm glad i didn't continue .. Without knowing exactly how you're going to get there, you know the ride will be dark and twisted.The truth is, if you go to Warren, no matter what is going on in your personal life—hair trouble, existential malaise, ax murder—you do the reading.  Mean Girls incontra Palahniuk –anche se, sorpresa, lei si chiama Mona Awad –, il dark academia che incontra il Pulp più crudo in un mix geniale e malato. Mi ha tenuta incollata alle pagine fino alla fine. Credo che finora sia il libro più bello che ho letto in questo 2022 I know there’s many contrary opinions on this book and i understand why there may be so but i think mona awad is so brilliant. i absolutely loved this book and the absurdity of it, so weird but so interesting i just had to give it 5 starts. Incredibly annoyed I didn’t write this book 7 years ago. 5 stars This was definitely not what I was expecting. It's a strange, surreal book, sort of a Mean Girls meets Shirley Jackson.  [laughs nervously] what the fuck This was really fucking weird, both in a good way and not a good way. I'm actually very unsure of what to think about this book. bunny is strange and perfect and incredible and i can't wait to read more by Mona Awad!!!  i truly have no idea what to think about this book. i'm gonna need a minute. or maybe a month. I am obsessed, this is so good!Full review at http://natysbookshelf.wordpress.com I have no idea what the fuck I just read but I loved every minute of it. Is this was LSD is like this was fucking weird and trippy and I'm not sure if I loved it or hated it  This book was WILD and I was 100 percent here for it. How to describe? Heathers + Frankenstein.  HAHAHA what the actual fuck... but like in the best way??? ik heb geen idee wat ik net gelezen heb hahaha What the actual f—ck. This book is genius. Absolute madness. Utter chaos. Bunnies and swans and wolves, OH MY. ...I loved every goddamn second of it. More please. absolutely bonkers and very good. i even had to take a break halfway through because the writing made me feel woozy My god this is the best worst book I’ve ever read.  *insert confused but amused gif* I REALLY LIKED THIS. i have no idea what i just read but i’m pretty sure i liked it?? I need some time to decide on a rating but this felt like watching "mean girls" on acid . Such a fucking weird experience and I'm definitely never gonna at bunnies the same way ever again …WHAT?! I read this book earlier this year in January but i cant stop thinking about it!! It was so unsettling and bizarre, and an absolute must read! i get it, i understand.  I think this is the weirdest book I've ever read but I could not put it down...! I think this maybe deserves more stars but I am so confused. 1.5. because I liked the first 50 pages and that’s about it. Pure torture. Don’t worry I vlogged it 😈Watch here: https://youtu.be/hNdLROjVQ6k what.i’m in shock idk what i just read.i’m gonna need a lot of time to process everything, but overall really good story quite bizarre and unique. Oh, Bunny, I love you  help wtf did i just read- I recommend this one to my worst enemy what? seriously wtf? I don‘t know if I love or hate the book but it’s definitely something + whatever drugs the bunnies take I want it too  i felt like i was on acid the whole time, a24 would eat this up  
  "but i wasn't listening, i wasn't stopping. because we were already running away again, me and my imagination."
- 1st reread, annotated- botwathon vah rudania questㅤprompt: gut check rock - read an intimidating book- midnights 3am reading challenge ㅤsnow on the beach: read a book in the magical realism genre  ㅤ♫ 
  weird but fucking beautiful, flying in a dream
 ♫
  my thoughts on the book:
OKAYYY so first of all i think the hype is a bit misleading by saying it's horror and ppl should check the genre tags on goodreads before reading this book. bunny is mostly magical realism with aspects of horror. this was my second time reading bunny and once again, i fell into the rabbit hole of samantha's mind and experiences. the first time i read it i was pretty much confused abt everything yet i loved how surreal, strange and fever dreamy the writing was. it has become one of my favourite things abt literature that i am always looking to read books like this. i enjoyed the commentary on academia and social class, but the bunnies are definitely the most interesting characters and i had sm fun reading about them. i loved how hyper-feminine and mad they were. a lot of their lines made me giggle like when one of them (probably vignette) wrote 'elf p*rn's hot' on her ig caption like wtffsjdjjdsjskjs??? mona awad's writing made me feel like i was lost in such a weird, fucked up dream. the way she portrayed samantha's loneliness during the winter break was so vivid that it made me shiver. i found myself immersed in the story and constantly questioned if this is real or not? what does this all mean? after reading a few reviews/analysis abt bunny, i now understand the metaphors the author used in the book. although the answers aren't explained, i like that it allows you to to take your own interpretations from it as the reader.
   so here’s my long ass theory explaining how everything went down:
when samantha was in her first year at warren university, she became an outcast due to her social class and loneliness. her mum is dead and her dad is hiding from the police. she hated the bunnies due to their hyper-femininity and obsessive friendship. eventually the lion, a professor on samantha’s writing course became close w/ her. one night samantha got really drunk and had a breakdown at his place. the lion got freaked out by this and realised samantha is mentally ill, possibly schizophrenia. he distanced himself from samantha and she spent the whole night at the park bench by a pond w/ a white swan in it. this is where she always used to go whenever she felt lonely. samantha accidentally created ava to cope with the devastation of being abandoned by the lion. ava became samantha’s best friend and the one she fell in love with. she represents the more honest and confident side to samantha. but she got carried away with her imagination, something her mother always told her not to do. ava’s place was actually an empty, abandoned house samantha imagined she lived in. i want to point out that samantha was homeless for some time in first year as she had to live in her car then squatted in a student accommodation. this could have worsened her schizophrenia (if thats what she struggled with) as she found an abandoned house to hang out with ava, and imagined all the furniture and decor. i believe this is one of samantha’s hallucinations which is part of her disorder. the swan-like imagery used to portray ava subtly hints her true form. samantha briefly forgot abt her after joining the bunnies, until she got a flashback of her nights dancing with ava. this brought her back to rescue samantha from the cult. the woman ava had a staring contest with in paris was revealed to be a story samantha made up. she kept getting lost trying to find ava’s house which is another big clue. also, ava covered her arms and face with fishnets, which could be fishing items found in ponds, rivers and lakes. however, samantha had no idea what she manifested the whole time. fast forward to second year where the book starts. when ava caught eleanor’s attention, she immediately knew samantha created her. this led to the bunnies’ decision to invite samantha to smut salon by sending her an origami swan, another subtle clue abt ava. samantha ditches her and joins the bunnies. eventually samantha falls into the bizarre and fucked up shit the bunnies get involved in. they knew ava was samantha’s creation meaning she had the same magical abilities as them, but she didn’t know of course. the magic is using one’s imagination to create characters and stories which is a metaphor for writing. the bunnies also noticed ava had her own personality which was dark, and kinda intense. they have used words like this to describe samantha’s work and felt intimidated by her. despite this, they want samantha to add these elements to their sinister workshop sessions. during samantha’s time with the bunnies, she was under the influence of these weird drugs. suddenly, she became detached from her own identity and all the women operated as one whole bunny. it’s like she morphed into a body part of this group. it was so trippy trying to distinguish between the individual characters, but it was easier to tell while i was annotating the book. in the bunnies’ workshops, they sacrifice actual bunnies to create ‘hybrids’, ‘drafts’ or ‘darlings’. these darlings are based on the bunnies’ favourite aesthetics and sexual preferences. the hybrids serve the bunnies in a romantic and sexual way even though they don’t actually engage in it (vignette/victoria probably wants to though). they are basically bunny boy toys with no thoughts or complexities. they are one dimensional and lack the depth samantha’s characters have, which suggests the bunnies’ writing isn’t that good. the bunnies are literally performing The Body (the bunny hybrids) and The Body is performing their writing. they take a literal approach to have physical control over their work, another metaphor for writing. the bunnies create a few drafts which they end up discarding before finalising a hybrid, depicting the ‘kill your darlings’ technique.
  max - the stag 
when ava rescued samantha, the drugs wore off and she remembered her burning hatred for the bunnies. they call her back to eleanor’s place where she failed to create a draft. but before going in she repeatedly chants to herself ‘remember they hate you. remember you hate them’ when a stag happened to stumble by. this led to the creation of max who is a mixture of samantha’s darkest, egotistic side and the men from her romantic/sexual past. he has sm chaotic energy and schemes to destroy the bunnies, yet they are OBSESSED with him. it’s like max possessed the women causing them to act unhinged and feral. he has the rawness and intensity the bunnies tried to capture in their drafts. although samantha failed to create a bunny hybrid, they definitely knew max was hers and tried to claim him. i’ve seen some people theorise this as a metaphor for plagiarism, maybe the bunnies planned to bring samantha to the cult so they can steal her work. max engages in bizarre sexual relationships with the women making them even more obsessed with him. he ends up ruining their writing as they received negative feedback from ursula. he gifts each bunny an object that symbolises samantha’s insulting nicknames for them. e.g. caroline got a cupcake and kira got a little creepy doll. he pinned the bunnies against each other destroying their close friendship. this is what samantha always wanted and can’t help but enjoy the chaos max has unleashed. he also represents samantha’s love and desire for ava by dating her. the praise and compliments max showers ava with comes directly from smackie’s notebook. i loved reading abt this side to samantha, it made me feel soft for her character.after eleanor found out abt max, the bunnies lured samantha into the cave and killed ava revealing her true form, a swan. in the cave, they criticised her for not taking agency. maybe it’s abt taking control over shit that happens in your story and trusting yourself? idk. honestly that whole part felt like a feverish nightmare and was that a bunny they gagged smackie with??? it was like they were trying to turn her into a bunny out of revenge?? when she confronts the bunnies abt ava’s death they say “i mean, you have to kill your darlings, remember?” suggesting what they did will help samantha’s character development. they criticise her for taking her writing too far and a true artist doesn’t get carried away with it. although the bunnies’ work isn’t as good as samantha’s, they know the line between art and reality. due to the complexity of smackie’s characters and her (possibly) mental illness, for her this line is blurred. she’s consumed by her characters, especially by ava to fill the painful loneliness she experiences. samantha avenged ava’s death by striking max with an axe driving the bunnies insane, this is her killing their darling (max). after seeing the stag, they realised the whole time max was not a bunny which mortified them. samantha created him all one her own and the bunnies tried to take credit for it. this shows how they underestimated smackie’s talent and explains why they were scared of her at graduation. 
  about the ending:
it appears that samantha stays present and decides to have a real friendship with jonah, until the mud below talks back to her. this may seem like she imagined everything but i don’t think so. i feel like the events of the story happened and jonah is the most realistic character. maybe samantha has schizophrenia which distorts her reality. therefore, she may struggle without support. there are sm signs pointing to this theory, the biggest one is the hallucination of the woman on the bus. i feel like samantha’s condition definitely blurs the line between art and reality, explaining how she didn’t know abt ava. she always gets drifted away from the present into the voices in her head that she often speaks out loud. she has a disorienting view of the town as it is portrayed as sketchy and unusual, it felt unsettling reading abt the place and i could sense her paranoia. samantha mentioned that she saw a man angrily arguing with himself on the street and the spider in her bathroom, i think these are some other hallucinations she experienced. as a reader, i like happy endings so i choose to believe samantha moves on with jonah's friendship despite her struggles. i'm not sure how to summarise this book but this is how i see it. i'll actually be surprised if anyone reads all of this but i appreciate it a lot if u made it this far and i would love to know ur thoughts 💗💗 “Why do you lie so much? And about the weirdest little things?”, my mother always asked me. “I don’t know", I always said. But I did know. It was very simple. Because it was a better story....Bunny is a surrealist fever dream that, to my complete surprise, burrowed its way into my heart.Samantha is an MFA student at Warren University, a prestigious institution with a famously rigorous creative writing program. Within Samantha's cohort of grad students are a clique of four young women who are rich, swaddled in expensive sundresses, and call each other Bunny. When Samantha is invited to the Bunnies' fabled Smut Salon, she decides to attend, despite her disgust towards their strange, cult-like devotion to one another. Ditching her best friend Ava in the process, Samantha is sucked into the pastel, sugar-filled, terrifying world of the Bunnies, and her perception of reality begins to blur. I would highly recommend going into this book with as little knowledge of it as possible. It's a story that is unconcerned with the comfort of its reader, nor the general conventions of genre fiction. Bunny is a horror satire with aching moments of drama and surreal terror. It's an exploration of loneliness, creativity, the absurdities of MFA programs, and the pretentiousness drivel that's often born from writing workshops. It's funny, deeply weird, and delightfully sinister. For one, Awad's prose was to die for. Her descriptions were evocative and creative, and effectively brought the sickly sweet Bunnies to life. It's fascinating how these squealing, heart-shaped, unbearably twee young woman were written with such visceral dread.“I quietly prayed for the hug implosion all year last year. That their ardent squeezing might cause the flesh to ooze from the sleeves, neckholes, and A‐line hems of their cupcake dresses like so much inane frosting. That they would get tangled in each other’s Game of Thrones hair, choked by the ornate braids they were forever braiding into each other’s heart‐shaped little heads.”And to my surprise, I found this book to be really fucking funny. I even laughed out loud a few times because damn, there's nothing more universal than the miseries of being a creative that has no idea what they're doing with their life. The satirical elements of the plot were expertly crafted, and the dialogue was diabolically clever. What I don't see a lot of reviewers talk about when discussing Bunny is how achingly sad it often is. Samantha, as a main character, is unreliable in a way I wasn't expecting. She lies a lot, but never to the reader. She'll think one thing and say something totally antithetical. She'll lie about being busy to her fellow classmates, about experiencing writer's block to her advisor, and about feeling adrift to seemingly concerned professors. The narrative establishes that Samantha lies because the reality of her life is deeply lonely. She's poor, has no family she can go home to for the holidays, and is ostracized by her rich, privileged classmates. Samantha wears a "sad girl" veneer, but underneath it is a longing to be loved - to not be alone. Her friendship with Ava is proof of that.Bunny is all about the fictions will build around ourselves. The Bunnies clothe themselves in taffeta and glitter, gorge on miniature sugary sweets, and write poetry with diamond styluses on glass panes. The dream-like haze of their lives is a direct product of their money. They have the privilege to be frivolous with their writing, to be misunderstood and vague. Samantha only has her mind, her heart, and all the hurt within it, and yet she's still able to create something beautiful - something terrible. “What do you think, Samantha?” Fosco asks me. That it’s a piece of pretentious shit. That it says nothing, gives nothing. That I don’t understand it, that probably no one does and no one ever will. That not being understood is a privilege I can’t afford. That I can’t believe this woman got paid to come here. That I think she should apologize to trees.Bunny is infamous for being weird and off-the-rails, but I think taking a purely literal approach in trying to understand the ending strips the meaning from the story. What's real and what's not isn't important, because no matter how imagined or literal, the events of Bunny are real to Samantha because they mean something to her. Ursula K. Le Guin once said, in discussing fiction, that “writers are in the business of lying.” That fiction is a lie that can ultimately illuminate truth. I think Bunny embodies this perfectly....“The real world lady, it's out there. Do you even know that? You're going to have to get back to it sometime.”  2.5I intended to sleep on this review but welp i tried reading more reviews and the more i was pushed to just write it. To be completely honest, this book was a complete let down for me. I picked it up because i wanted to feel the feeling of reading dark academia books have given me; the atmosphere, the vibes, the gorgeous writing (ie if we were villains and ninth house) and partly because i was hoping this book would take me out of a two month long slump. But welp it failed in both cases. I think what it comes down to is that I'm not really a fan of the writing. Idk how to explain it but i thought it was really good at times and bad at times? And filled with weird metaphors that just didn't make sense to me? Or at least were absolutely ridiculous. Like "her breathy voice full of demonic emoticons flanked by winking smileys" i hate it so much. I get it's trying to write how the bunnies would've spoken given the juxtaposition of their intelligence and the girlieness or whatever, I can't seem to find the word for it. Anyway, it doesn't mean I didn't hate it and didn't cringe every time ajksankdjdkdmsmFor this next point, I think this line from the book summarizes it perfectly: "I think, Kira, this must be just too brilliant for you to grasp. Surely you must have missed something. Even though there’s always been this small voice inside of me that says, Um, what the fuck is this, please? This makes no sense. This is coy and this is willfully obscure and no one but Victoria will ever get this."Yeah, safe to say, this makes no sense to me. Yes it's bizarre but like for what? I don't get what it's trying to say. I know it's trying to comment about writing and the craft that goes into it but I don't get what it's supposed to be commenting on. The process perhaps? Yeah, sure, the darlings and drafts. But it never goes deep into it? All i got is childish, teenage, high school drama involving cliques? Which is ironic because this takes place in grad school. I thought i was gonna get like creatures that are manifestations of weird, creepy, gruesome, dark shit (perhaps some trauma or strong feelings that certainly would've added to the characters considering they all seem to be archetypes and nothing more. Or experiences that comment on women's struggles in a creative field, I don't know. I guess i just wanted the darlings and drafts to be more than just creating a male fantasy) i would wager you would appreciate this more if you were a writer yourself or in a creative field but since I'm not, it was completely unrelatable to me. Since I already touched on the characters, well i guess I could say, in an ironic sense considering we share a name, that I did not connect to Samantha in any way. She just didn't engage me like at all. I didn't like anyone except perhaps Eleanor but that's partly because i liked the way she talks in my head. Max was eh, introduced too late for me to care and was sometimes unsettling but i just knew that man be toxic ass so I didn't like him (I know what he's meant to be lol, doesn't make me appreciate him more) Ava, I didn't like her at the beginning but towards the end, I guess i kind of appreciated her presence and her role in the story? I think it's the only part of this book that truly got me thinking. The Bunnies, help the way they are portrayed, in my opinion, just adds to the villainization of ultrafemininity? (Shanspeare on youtube did a great video essay about this topic) Like i get it, they like dressing up and shit, but leave them alone?? There's nothing wrong with it, why does Sam mock them for it so bad and continue to equate their femininity with villainy?? the way she calls them "cuntscapades" didn't help her case in my books, plus all the teenage drama mentioned before, yada yada, how very high school of them. That whole aspect of the book was literally just like mean girls except they are grown ass adults hakdnakkdlsNever thought I'd write a long ass review after a slump and a month and a half not reading but oh well.  nažalost paranoidna šizofrenijaveoma čudna knjiga, nije nalik ičemu što bih inače čitala. slušala sam audio knjigu i naracija sophie amoss je fantastična i uklapala se sa opštim uznemirujućim tonom knjige. iako mi je audio knjiga bila odlična u tome da mi podigne atmosferu, mislim da ova knjiga treba da se pročita i fizički jer prosto zahteva da se zamisliš nad svakom stranicom. takođe, definitivno se knjiga ovakvog tipa treba pročitati više nego jednom jer je ključ u detaljima koji lako mogu da promaknu naročito ako se knjiga čita duži vremenski period. ako mi se bude pružila prilika da se dokopam fizičke kopije, definitivno ću ponovo pročitati. lično ne preferiram da konzumiram medije bilo kog tipa kada uopšte ne razumem likove i kada nisam ni sama sigurna šta misle. volim nepouzdane naratore, međutim samantha spada u onu kategoriju nepouzdanih autora koji meni baš i ne leže, naročito kada se uzme u obzir radnja i tema knjige. za moj ukus je na momente previše apstraktno što mi svakako oduzima od utiska jer takve stvari obično ne volim. iz sve snage sam se trudila da razumem šta se i zašto događa, a neke stvari koje sam svakako naslutila od samog početka tek postanu jasne na kraju, što je dobra stvar jer je zbog toga knjiga veoma intrigantna i teško ju je ostaviti jednom kada počneš da čitaš.ne znam, ocenila bih je negde između 2.5 i 3 ⭐ jer čak i kad saberem utiske, koliko god da mi je knjiga bila interesantna, previše naginje ka elementima koje apsolutno ne volim. svakako, želela bih da pročitam još koju knjigu mone awad pre nego što donesem zaključak o njenom pisanju.bonus stvari na koje me je sve podsetila ova knjiga dok sam je čitala: melanie martinez, marina and the diamonds (naročito teen idle), heathers, fight club, twin peaks (koji nikad nisam gledala lmao).  From first page to last I was in love with Awad's writing. Protagonist/narrator Samantha's voice is matter-of-factly, blithely, sardonic - a perfect match for a wonderfully bonkers plot and ...um...unusual characters. Example- a description of a professor in her MFA program:"There are people who come to Warren just to breathe the same incense-choked air as Fosco. Rabid fangirls who have her name tattooed to the inside of their wrists, the smalls of their backs, their winglike shoulder blades. Who clutch her fiercely experimental novels to their chests like witchy talismans, murmuring passages as though they were prayers, incantations. Because she is so mystical, so maternal, so wise. I am not one of them. When I observe Fosco in her iridescent smock that calls to mind New Age priestesses, her hands performing vaguely gynecological gestures over stories that I’m certain she’s just now speed-reading for the first time, her rose lips spouting cryptic feedback which she’ll punctuate now and then with her infamously ever pregnant pause, I cannot be one of them."When Samantha turns this voice on herself it becomes more desperate and lost, as here when she tries to resist the siren song of the Bunnies:"I tell myself I have to fight this—remember you hate them, remember they hate you—but all at once I fail. I succumb. I allow the sick need that no degree of revulsion can kill to be picked up out of the cold, wet dark and petted. I melt into it, their hug, allowing, nay, willing myself to be crushed. I become one with the blob. Or as close to one as I can become."There are so many perfect little one-liners too - too many to choose from. I did a ridiculous amount of highlighting on my Kindle.If this had been a novella, I'd have given it five stars. But despite the great writing, the first quarter of the novel felt dragged out, and I nearly quit. A GR friend recommended skimming up to the 'attic scene' and I'm so glad I did. By that point, the plot kicked in and the pace picked up.  Bunny is just soooo brilliant. SO.with the disorienting experience of reading this, the one sane question i had in my mind was “am i being gaslighted by this book?”. though the question remained unanswered for quite a while i must say i loved it more than i intended to and at the same time i can see why this isn’t for everyone. mona awad did an exceptional job at hooking me right into the story because while our protagonist, samantha, goes to attend her silly little workshop with the bunnies not only did the fine line of her reality started to blur but also my own. the question of what is real and what is not was naturally thrown around and at times it felt too much for me to follow. one thing about me is that i am nothing if not easily captivated by a flowery prose. ultimately, this was the only thing i relied on till the very end since i stopped dissecting the inner happenings of this book and simply went along with it. needless to say, it’s brilliant and it’s visceral. every single thing is so deliciously calculated that i couldn’t get enough of it. a lot of people were mad about the ending but i, for one, could not be more creeped out the moment it all started to piece together. how ava— the character i loved so dearly— didn’t even exist in the first place. and just as i was starting to love jonah with all of his weirdness the idea that he, too, could simply be an imaginary friend felt so unreal yet possible and honestly i’d rather not know. it’s all just one crazy rabbit hole and i can’t wait to delve more into mona awad’s works. Was this what I expected? No, not at all. Was this enjoyable and will it stay with me? A resounding yes! Truly this was absolute lunacy from beginning to end. Total chaos. We love to read it.  I’ve heard Bunny be consistently compared to Heathers, and while I can definitely see some similarities – including deep dark humour and a focus on close female group structures – Awad has created a darling all her own here. Set in an elite New England university the scene is set and the imagery is so vivid you can feel the cold breeze in the air. Then pair that with a set of pretentious creative writing MFA students and you’re in for a wild ride my friend. My whole time reading this I couldn’t help but think how it was would be a phenomenal film in the hands of the right director (specifically something like Boots Riley’s Sorry to Bother You).PS. I don't know if I'll ever not love reading through an unreliable narrator. I live for it. Is this in your head? Is this really happening? No one knows!  I think I enjoyed this? I’m not sure what it’s about, or what to make of it, or how to analyse it, or whether it’s even something to be analysed. Reading Bunny brought back memories of sitting in seminars at uni, being asked for my thoughts and panicking because my mind was perpetually frozen. I don’t know I don’t know I don’t know I don’t know I don’t know I. Only the seminar leader didn’t let us skip questions, so I’d cry quietly until the time was up and we could leave. The more I try to explore whatever Bunny is, the less I’m able to formulate a coherent sentence. Which is perhaps part of the point? Or perhaps not? Maybe my craving for clarity is a clue. Let it go, Imogen. Or not. It all feels very beyond me. It all seemed very beyond Samantha at times, and she was there. Anyway. Exploding heads and Frankenstein’s monster and writer’s block and cliques and the occult and creativity and blood and words and reality. I laughed often, and laughed even more when I wasn’t sure if laughter was the anticipated reaction. It was either terrible or it was brilliant or it was mediocre. It was certainly different.  This book wasn’t for me. I felt like it was a jumbled mess of Carrie meets the Heathers? Which yes, sounds amazing, but this ended up being a very repetitive string of weirdly sexual, depressing situations. The premise of this book had me so so excited and at first I was into the whole creepy, culty thing. As the story progressed I was slowly taken out of it due to the repetitive nature of Samantha and the Bunny’s escapades. Also the ending? Let’s just say it’s not what I was expecting given the events that happened weeks before.I will say that Awad is a stellar writer. I personally felt that the writing in this book was great. Awad writes in a really intelligent, clever way that does draw you in. If it wasn’t for that this may have been a ‘dnf’. I’m hoping maybe I will find a book by her in which the story/plot meets the level of writing for me personally. 2 stars  I would give this 3.5/5 It definitely wasn’t a bad book but a crazy one. The story follows writers and a twisted cult. It feels like I’m reading what it’s like to fall down the rabbit hole. The bunnies are so incredibly creepy and perplexing. Mysteriously terrifying. This is a gothic thriller that really rattles your brain. Many parts I had to reread and take a break to fully understand what had just happened. I did not expect it to be this mind-twisting. Overall this was a good book, with a sickening plot, and crazy characters. This was truly a creepy and interesting book. I actually don't even know if I hated, loved, or liked this book, I'm still perplexed by it.   3 stars. I don’t know what the hell I just read but it was absolutely fascinating. This was extremely bizarre and messed up but I liked it. It was so strange. It’s not a book that I can sum up even if I tried and I honestly didn’t know what to expect but I think that’s for the best. Going into this with no pretense was great and I recommend doing it that way. It’s dark, weird, and completely fucked up but it was a fun read. I liked the writing style and I will definitely be reading more from this author. I hope her other works are just as bizarre as this one was.  "A book should be like an ax." This book sure is like one. I read this after pulling an all-nighter and taking a 5-hour test. I feel dizzy it's currently 5pm. There was a moment near the climax where I just started saying the words I was reading aloud and I only realized when I started screaming a bit. I should probably get some sleep or watch some My Little Pony. I don't know if I liked this book? But I think that the point is that my brain felt like it had different velocities for it to be scrambled, like a really good kitchen blender, and for that it probably deserves the rating. Might change it after a night's sleep.  i don't think i've been a student on enough mfa programmes to understand what the fuck is happening in this novel. maybe it's just hit me at the wrong time but it was such a slog to get through this because i had no idea what was going on or who anyone was. it's labyrinthine and weird in a way that i just can't connect with or understand.that being said, the Fight Club-esque story i came up with for this book when i was struggling through another page of hallucination ramblings was really good  I don’t know how I feel completely yet, but it was certainly a wild rideEdit: after discussing it with Booktuber Katie Colson's Book Club and talking about it with a friend, I'm going to go ahead and give it 5 stars! It really was a wild book from start to finish, one that kept me thinking about it for a few days after I finished. There were so many little things I missed and creepy, crazy plot twists that I really enjoyed. The characters are obviously all flawed and exaggerated as it's a dark satire, but I still could pinpoint people in my past who acted exactly like the Bunnies/Samantha. I would recommend it for anyone if you want a weird but fast read that will make you think!  Ohhhhhhhhmigod this was so good and so weird and so confusing and i hated it but i loved it and i’m so tripped out by it????? I love a book that gaslights the reader and you’re like «&nbsp;wtf is going ON???&nbsp;» 90% of the time. Such a good and unhinged book, i love Awad’s writing style and she’s such a masterful story teller. I would like to see what it’s like in her head because this story just…. scrambled my brains. WOW.(4.5)  3.5🌟 Okay so I've processed everything and feel like I can finally write a review. This book was so complex and interesting and had such interesting underlying themes, that if you didn't grasp might make you confused as to what was going on. It was the kind of book I can imagine as an a24 movie - i could literally visualise everything that was happening and could really see this being turned into a film (which i would definitely watch). The only thing that made this book fall short of 4 stars was my utter confusion at times and also I wanted more time with the Bunnies.  I really enjoyed the first half of the book. I couldn't stop reading and even dreamed about it. Unfortunately, the second half was exactly the opposite. I have to fight my way through and couldn't follow the story anymore. Also the plot didn't convince me either. I would have loved to give the book more stars because I liked the idea of ​​the story and the writing style so much. Maybe Mona Awad's next book will convince me more.  DNF at 45%. I wanted to love this one. Campus novel horror? Yes please. And it started out well but slowly became so difficult for me to follow that I realized I didn’t know what was going on nor did I really care. So I decided it was time to put it down. It felt like a fever dream and that’s just not my thing. However, there are many who love this so if you don’t mind a book that blurs reality and feels like a fever dream, this might be for you. But, it’s just not for me!   ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️I was actually enjoying it at the beginning. The writing is amazing. However, some parts were like what the heck. I mean I guess that was the point (I hope so lol). Eventually I found myself saying “bunny yes” “bunny that” like the protagonist haha. Giving it 4 stars because it really kept me entertained, but some parts were confusing towards the end.  THIS BOOK WAS WILD. The weirdest thing I've ever read. It was like Heathers x Mean Girl x Perfume on steroids. It was literary acid. The Bunnies were like no character I've ever read, and Samantha's relationship with Ava was EVERYTHING in this novel. It was witchy and gory and shocking, and the prose was absolutely gorgeous. It was also satirical, cynical and intimately terrifying. This was so delightfully bizarre and so compelling that I've already preordered Mona Awad's next book.  i really liked the premise of this book, as in the what the f**k nature of the book... but then it got sooo repetitive, it just wasn't my vibe i'm sorry. mustering up the energy to even pick it up was a challenge in itself which is why i wasn't able to finish it, i can't come and kill myself this 2023 because of a rabbit cult lmao  What. The. Fuck.I feel like so smart because i understood everything the story wanted to tell. At the same time so so dumb because i understood nothing at all."If you cant tell the difference between reality and illusion, we cant help you." Is that just a quote from the book or the author mocking me??  Frankenstein meets Mean Girls and they enroll in an MFA program.I liked the first half better than the second, and I think the narrative could have been shorter. Overall though, this was fun &amp; I think it ~almost~ completely committed to the bit.   This was really good, funny, great Heathers/Mean Girls vibes. Got a little bit loopy for me where I got lost a little towards the end. But I really enjoyed it and all its commentary on academia and creative writing programs, imagination and writing. I don't knowI don't knowI don't knowI don't knowI don't knowI don't know
  I don't know

  I don't know what I just read?
Anyways, I'm going to try and pick my melted brain up from off the floor   What the hell did I just listen too 😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂. This is a frickin bizarre horrorish novel. I have many questions but it was unique and I wanted to keep listening to find out what happened. I can’t decide if it was a masterpiece or trash but definitely fascinating 😂😂😂It could be 5 stars or 1. I’m not sure. But I think it’s 5 stars 😂  3.5 stars ✿❛I've never really not written, never not had another world of my own making to escape to, never known how to be in this world without most of my soul dreaming up and living in another.❜I feel lost and confused.  Em penso que només he entès la meitat i no tinc ni idea de què és el que passa realment, però qualsevol de les interpretacions m'agraden. Una novel·la que ens parla del desig d'acceptació, la solitud, el cost del procés creatiu i la validació social. .. What the fuck?-----------------Our main character in Bunny is Samantha Mackie, a young woman attending Warren University on a MFA program for creative writing. Also on her program are a group of 4 women known collectively as 'The Bunnies' as they like to refer to each other as Bunny. Since the previous year, Samantha has well and truly been the outsider so she's surprised when she's invited to join the group at their 'Smut Salon', a creative experience they hold at one of their houses.From there, Samantha is pulled into a crazy world with cult-like behaviour, reality-bending experiences and limit-pushing creativity. I'll be honest; 90% of the time (roughly) I had no fucking idea what was going on. I went into this book expecting a Heathers-esque story with body horror and maybe witchcraft based on the synopsis and other reviews. But I'm not actually sure what I read. Heathers, this is not. Mean Girls, this is certainly not. I'm struggling to sum up my feelings for this book because it confused the fuck out of me and I'm not sure if that's a good thing or not. Maybe I'm the idiot here and I just misunderstood this whole book. The ending wasn't super clear to me and I was expecting for it all to be in Samantha's head or for the author to use mental health as a plot twist.If there is anyone out there that fully understood this book and can explain to me what happened, PLEASE DO!   What did I just read? I need time to ponder. Creative, inventive and beautifully written with a trip to bizarro world. Literary horror. WHAT THE HELL DID I JUST READ!!! WHAT. THE. ACTUAL. FUCK. WAS. THIS. BOOK? omg… So good and so confusing (in the best way) I’m just like her Reading this book feels like a combination of a fever dream and tripping on psychedelics, in the best way possible. You have to constantly decipher whether what is happening is real or imagination. It’s satirical, creepy, and you won’t want to stop reading.  [3.5/5] "we've read jane eyre too, you cunt."  Bunny is the most batshit crazy book I have ever read. It's an absolute fever dream and, Bunny, I loved every minute of it! Top 5 favorite books of all time.  frankly i have no idea what the fuck this was! literally just felt like i was being gaslighted by the bunnies for 300 pages straight. but it was kind of fun i guess? muy sarcástico y exagerado, en el mejor de los sentidos. cuanto menos sepas de qué va, mejor, la verdad ajajjajajaa me ha encantado 10/10 this was the most insane book i think i’ve ever read. it was so disorientating and illusive, but hilarious with its satirical and INSANE female characters. GOD i’m obsesSED AND CONFUSED!!!!! what the hell Bananas, batshit &amp; brilliant. I was leaning towards 4 stars throughout most of this book (even if for no other reason than that it namedrops Moonchild, an obscure novel by Aleister Crowley that I wrote my thesis about, and I like it when books reference niche personal interests of mine), but by the end the writing style just started to grate on me. It's definitely not without its moments of wit, and I even found myself chuckling along with certain passages, but there's just an overall whininess to a lot of the narration that gets on your nerves eventually. It's by no means what I would consider amateurish or incompetent, but the self-pitying tone of the writing, combined with the fact that it occasionally feels a bit too meta and self-aware for its own good, means that Bunny at times reads a little like an average angsty YA romance instead of the extremely clever &amp; original horror story that I think it could have been (and, to a certain extent, that I think it is at its core). Still, I'm infinitely grateful to Bunny and Mona Awad, because at least now I know that I'm not the only person who thought Means Girls was (or should have been) an existential horror movie instead of a comedy!  3.5/5 People who say this book is weird haven't read actually weird literature moral of the story: dont do drugs unless you wanna see bunnies form into humans and get blown up by girls who are “borny” ❗️❗️ Mean girls meets the Craft meets Frankenstein.This felt like a fever dream but in the best way 3.5⭐ This is the trippiest book I've ever read. Finished this book an hour ago and still can’t form a coherent thought. My brain hurts. I will definitely be thinking about this book for a long, long time… 3.5 ⭐️  loved the mfa program in an elite new england university hate but i was also kind of waiting for this book to end the whole time... Maybe im just not as coolbookperson as you all. it's okay. I guess I don’t do weird books because this book was weird. If you do, I think you’d like this one. LOL HUH?  This really had the potential to be great, but about half way through, the author tried to become so bizarre and uncanny that she ended up going backwards. Pretty much as soon as Max was introduced, the story just focused on "hot maybe-bunny boy" and essentially pushed the narrative that women can be so easily lead astray and manipulated and abused by pretty boys. I didn't like how easily all of the women were able to be brained washed and turned inside out, especially after learning that **(SPOILER)** Max is actually just the physical embodiment of Samantha's desires, so really it was Samantha who abused and manipulated these women.  sick and twisted. 3.5 ⭐ | Yo, ce roman est complètement fucké, j'ai jamais rien lu de tel. 😂 Chapeau à la traduction québécoise, les esti, les tabarnaque si bien placés dans l'histoire, j'ai full apprécié! Wow. Unsettling at times, funny at others, full of heart. This book was not what I expected. The less known about it going in the better. What the helll…… I don’t understand what happened at all this was the weirdest book I’ve ever read in my life  what did i just read finishing this felt like slowly emerging from the most intense fever dream."o bunny, you are sooo genius!" Words can't describe how much I enjoyed reading this book Weird, as promised. An electric, darkly humorous, and demented read. The ending wasn’t as satisfying as the rest, but it was a very enjoyable ride. i’m crying  fuck you  I didn’t want to put this book down, but only because I couldn’t to figure out what was happening &amp; wanted to understand. Then I did (kinda?). And overall, it’s just a girl-hating (lame), cult book (cool) where a man is the savior in the end (lame!).  what Can someone tell me what the fuck just happened “The real world, lady. It’s out there. Do you even know that? You’re going to have to get back to it sometime.”Okay, so Bunny is weird and absurd, but it certainly isn't that weird. It had its good weird moments, sure, but unfortunately those moments were just that: moments of great potential that ultimately weren't extended to the whole book. Just when I thought the plot was heading towards a satisfying, steady climax, everything got sort of broken down, only to linger aimlessly towards an ending that was suddenly great again? I just wish the novel had more consistency in terms of plot weirdness so that it could've correlated even better with Awad's uncanny, imaginative writing style.  thoroughly disappointed but I kinda liked it ???? felt like a bad dream I couldn’t wake from  3.5Enjoyed it overall, was so confused for most of the book but towards the end it made sense and had me thinking for awhile after haha. Interesting read for sure! WHAAAAT??? Wow, what a weird.. dark and hilarious book. Samantha’s inner dialogue actually had me laughing out loud, a lot.. I don’t know if that’s a good thing or not, but it feels like it.  it’s serving pussy slay version of the secret history I don't know how to even begin to review this book, but by about 50% I had decided I didn't like it.The start had me hooked, I was like "WHAT IS GOING ON?????" and I actually really loved how well done the writing was to make the characters seem scary and unhinged..... but by Part 2.... It just got way too repetitive and annoying. Part 3 was just boring, and still too repetitive. Samantha is so whiny. It got old. The reveal at the end made me feel like I wasted my time.I also hated how the main plot in the crazy parts pretty much just boiled down to:NEED. MAN. BIG. COCK.I can see why people liked this, but it's a no from me.  reading this on kindle unlimited while my free trial had run out and it disappearing as soon as i closed it surely added to the sense of dread in this book.  this was the weirdest thing I've ever read and I strangely loved it den här gav mig mardrömmar *3,5*weird…to say the least perfect  im conflicted i gotta stop reading these crazy lady books 3.75⭐️ rtc Oh down, down the Bunny Hole we go.  This was WILD. I think Mary Shelley would be proud?? while there’s nothing objectively wrong with weird books or confusing endings i do think there needs to be some level of understanding to give the story meaning and purpose. cause why read a book if it’s impossible to get anything out of because it’s so up in the air? that being said i still had fun!   2.5 and a hell of a fever dream  bizarre? bizarre. BIZARRE!!!! how can i read it for the first time all over again ??‽ while I was lost most of the time it was interested...  Other reviews seemed to hate it because the narrative was quite confusing or weird. I do agree that its weird however I thought the writing was quite clear in the direction it was taking. The book is confusing because it chooses to omit detail and explanation on certain events however the general situation is easy to decipher. I didn't really see a clear message weaved into the book (other than avoid cults, i guess?), but that could just be me. More than anything i loved seeing the growth of the main character, I really sympathised with her lonesomeness and yearning for place to belong, and the conclusion for her was certainly satisfying and realistic. I also thought the book had the perfect amount of gayness, not so much that it becomes a plot or identity of the character, but enough to feel a connection between the women (referring not to the bunnies, they have too many issues). Also i've seen people refer to it as a feminist piece work. are we even reading the same material? this book is almost satire in its depiction of women. kudos to zannat for gifting me the book &lt;3  Primo giorno dell'anno, primo libro like heathers but so so bizarre Weird, disturbing, and kind of thought provoking."O Bunny you are sooo genius!"--Margaret Atwood.Popsugar reading challenge- A book with a quote from your favourite author on the cover.  Despite this being a short book, it took me a while to read this. I know I enjoyed reading this book but i don't have any reason to explain the same. Yes it is bizarre. Everyone knows that. But the writing just pulls you in and makes you keep reading. But also one could only read so much without understanding. That's why I had to take time with this book. To atleast get a sliver of what actually the book was about. And still I don't think I find it that interesting or have some deep meaning. I mostly liked the writing but not much of anything other than that. Also this is a crazy book with gore for the sake of gore.  Tá istá DNA ako The Secret History, len so absurdné, so hallucinogenic, so SO. Taká paródia, ale náhodou zopárkrát som sa nahlas zasmial a postavy boli napísané podľa môjho gusta. (Vyobrazené len veľmi povrchne, aby to slúžilo knihe. Neznášam “hlboké” postavy s nekonečnými enigmatickými monológmi, nad ktorými sa aj tak nikomu nechce rozmýšľať.) Koniec však bol nudný, podľa môjho subjektívneho úsudku.   well..wow and also WHAT THE FUCK. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⚡️ 4.5/5. Wow. What???!!! This was Heathers meets Mean Girls meets Black Swan (plus something else that I can’t reveal without spoiling)! I absolutely loved Awad’s writing style and her dark sense of humor poking fun at academia and the literary world. I would not recommend this book to everyone, but the right reader will fall in love with this book. I almost didn’t feel like myself while I was reading – it possessed me. And that ending! I need to talk to anyone who will listen about the ending. Bunnies, this was so, so good. SO.  DNF at 25% for now. I'd been warned it was a weird book and I don't think I'm in the mood for that at the moment. Meh.I’m not sure how I feel about this; part of me feels like a sixth grader wrote this and the other part of me thinks this was a solid read. I don’t think this book was great or amazing and I think this book had to much context. I think this book doesn’t do any favours for its self by comparing it to the movie Heathers. Overall, I didn’t get a real thriller feel and some parts were a little boring. Not a bad read an average read just missing the wow!  5 ⭐️ i devoured this strange work of art.i’m glad the 100th book i read this year was a good one! 🎉 Ik hou wel van raar, maar dit boek was gewoon echt absurd. Ik kon het waarderen hoe wicked de schrijfstijl was, maar het plot sloeg heeeelemaal nergens op en ook achteraf kon ik daar geen 'wauw!' in vinden. Bunny is zo'n 2938x gezegd in het boek, wat soms echt goed paste in de context, maar op ten duur echt rete irritant werd.Ik kan ook niet zo goed tegen het dierenleed, maar dat is persoonlijk. Het is echt een verhaal wat keer op keer je een WTFF???-gevoel geeft. Je leven is niet meer hetzelfde na het lezen van Bunny, haha. Mensen die het hebben gelezen kunnen het beamen. Tevens zat het verhaal vol met klagen en zeuren, waardoor het een lange lijdensweg werd om te lezen. Als je her en der 2 hoofdstukken zou skippen, zou je niks missen. Zo beschrijvend is het verhaal soms en zo weinig toevoegend aan het geheel. De auteur weet zeker op een intrigerende manier dingen te beschrijven, maar sommige plottwists zijn zo random en idioot dat ze het echt een zooitje maken. Het hoofdpersonage heeft haar struggles, maar de manier waarop dit aangekaart en opgelost wordt is achterlijk. Totaal niet mijn smaak... Maar, zeker een boek wat je bij zal blijven, positief of negatief.   4.5 Stars “Oh, Bunny, I love you. I love you, Bunny.” -Bunny.See more on my Bookstagram: Shelf.Inspiration Instagram This book follows Samantha who is an outsider in her MFA program at Warren University. Samantha is repelled by the rest of her fiction writing cohort- a group of unusual rich girls who call each other “Bunny” and seem to move and speak as one. But everything changes when Samantha receives an invitation to one of their meetings and decides to attend. Soon, Samantha finds herself deeper and deeper in the sinister, sweet world of the Bunnies and she begins to take part in their ritualistic “workshop” where the Bunnies conjure up monstrous creations. Samantha soon finds the edges of reality blurring as her friendships come to a deadly collision. REVIEW: This may be the weirdest book I have ever read, hands down. But I absolutely loved it! The entire book will have you second guessing what you just read up until the very end. I am still going through everything in my mind and trying to sort it all out. There are so many subtle details that are well thought out, but not too obvious. That being said, if you have read this, DM me and let’s talk theories! While this book could be considered horror, it does have some thriller qualities as well as some satire. Overall, this book offers commentary about loneliness, friendships,and the need to belong in the most interesting of ways. I will be re-reading this one again for sure to see what I can pick up on a second read through. SYNOPSIS: Samantha Heather Mackey couldn't be more of an outsider in her small, highly selective MFA program at New England's Warren University. A scholarship student who prefers the company of her dark imagination to that of most people, she is utterly repelled by the rest of her fiction writing cohort--a clique of unbearably twee rich girls who call each other "Bunny," and seem to move and speak as one. But everything changes when Samantha receives an invitation to the Bunnies' fabled "Smut Salon," and finds herself inexplicably drawn to their front door--ditching her only friend, Ava, in the process. As Samantha plunges deeper and deeper into the Bunnies' sinister yet saccharine world, beginning to take part in the ritualistic off-campus "Workshop" where they conjure their monstrous creations, the edges of reality begin to blur. Soon, her friendships with Ava and the Bunnies will be brought into deadly collision.   Во-первых, зря я прочитал интервью с переводчицей этой книги. Там был жирный спойлер, поэтому с середины я просто лениво листал странички и ждал когда ИНТРИГА наконец покажет своё истинное лицо. Будет мне уроком.Во-вторых, даже самый сплочённый ковен барби ведьмочек может рассориться из-за мужика. Ха-ха, классика.В-третьих, надоело, что в книгах/фильмах/сериалах про учебные заведения студенты посещают уроки только по одному предмету. Я понимаю, в кино и сериалах нет бюджета и не хотят затягивать, но уж в книге-то автор могла хотя бы сделать вид, что деткам надо делать домашку не только по курсу creative writing и расчесывать манту напоказ. Даже в Gilmore Girls Рори так завалили домашкой, что сериал аж скатился! Это одновременно и талантливо, и «бууууу, верните как было»!В России роман не позиционируется как хоррор, хотя в «ихнем» гудридсе попал в шортлист лучших ужастиков прошлого года. Нас такой бесовщиной не запугать, ведь мы русские, с нами бог. Объясняю! Тут ведьмы делают идеальных мужиков из кроликов и прочих подручных. Получилось что-то среднее между старой «Сабриной», «Практической магией» (это старый фильм с Баллок и Кидман, который по трейлеру похож на хоррор, а в итоге романтическая комедия про сестёр ведьмочек, очень рекомендую) и новой «Сабриной». Как и почему колдуют — не объясняют, ведь книга не про очередной Хогвартс, а про то, как Мона Авад всем рассказывает какая она хорошая писательница. И могла бы писать как Вирджиния Вульф, но снизошла до вот этого вот.Иногда было смешно, но с середины и ��о самого конца стало очень скучно. Если смотрели «Дрянных девчонок», то сюжетные ходы легко предугадываются. На двухсотой странице вырабатывается слепота к сюсюканью и нападкам на пустоголовых девчонок в розовом. Спасибо, Мона, мы с первого раза поняли, что тебя на расстояние пушечного выстрела нельзя подпускать к бутикам Hello Kitty. Эх, а я надеялся на космическое божество, которое управляет девчачьим культом, а потом влюбляется в мужика, осознаёт свою сексуальность и счастливо засыпает во тьме. Но, видимо, придётся теперь самому про это писать.  Super fucking bizarre. Ovvero, un libro strano. Molto strano.Lo stile di Mona Awad è molto “fisico”, sensoriale, poiché le Bunny di cui ci parla nel titolo, ce le fa, dall’inizio alla fine, vedere, annusare, toccare con mano, quasi fossero lì in piedi, accanto a noi. Oppure sedute nel soggiorno, davanti al camino, coi loro vestiti traslucidi color pastello pieni di paillettes, le dita profumate di cupcake e cannella, i loro cocktails dai nomi erotici, i loro discorsi tra l’eclettico e il creepy, i loro strilli, i loro abbracci e i loro messaggini di emoticon, infarciti di nulla. Artificiose, finte, riccastre, bizzarre. Hanno nomi comuni, come Eleanor e Caroline, ma si fanno chiamare tutte indistintamente “Bunny” e hanno le loro serate dedicate e private, quasi fossero un club esclusivo. Sono studentesse di un corso di scrittura creativa della Warren University e sono guardate con disgusto dalla nostra protagonista, Samantha, e dalla sua migliore amica, Ava, che rappresentano il loro esatto contrario, semplici, serie, povere, poco appariscenti. Ma poi Samantha entra pian piano, spinta prima da una vorace curiosità e poi intrappolata, nel loro mondo bizzarro, scandito da rituali macabri e inimmaginabili, capaci di trasformarle, da ragazze, in esseri mostruosi. E accade…cosa accade? E’ difficile dirlo con precisione poiché è difficile capirlo con precisione. All’inizio lo stile corposo, che avviluppa tutti i sensi, afferra e piace ma a lungo andare, stanca e si sente la mancanza di un’azione descritta in maniera chiara, di un piano, di un progetto. Ciò che accade è come se accadesse sotto lo sguardo ipnotico di Samantha, e di noi stessi, come fossimo in un sogno, in un universo parallelo dove il confine tra finzione e realtà è piuttosto sottile. Ci si arriva un po’ per intuito, forse, ma restano comunque dei punti di domanda.In conclusione una favola dark che la copertina rosa e nera rispecchia perfettamente: il rosa chic dell’apparenza delle Bunny, stravaganti e fascinose, e il nero della loro anima, quando si trasformano in esseri mostruosi e fanno ciò che fanno. Strano e piacevole, ma per metà.  So so weird, hesitantly, I decided to keep reading and it stayed so so weird…, however, on some aspects, also quite geniously written? Not sure if I would recommend this though. I’m a little confused about what I think of this book 🥲 Reading Bunny felt like a fever dream. I was very unsure of what I just read after finishing the last chapter, but I was into it.‎“Lipstick is for whores, Bunny.”‎Straightforward as the plot was, I had no idea what lengths Mona Awad was willing to go to and it made the experience so thrilling. From exploding heads to girls playing god, it truly was a rollercoaster.I must admit it took some time for me to get used to the stream of consciousness-type of writing. It was difficult to follow, but I learned to push through and suspend my expectations of internalizing every single sentence I read in this book.It was divided into three parts, with Part 2 being the most feverish to read, but I found the style to be very fitting to where the plot was going and where Samantha’s state of mind was at—Part 2 was when she was getting absorbed into the clique and it reflected on the shift in writing style: we were along for the witchy, psychedelic ride as much as Samantha was.The characters were a bit one-dimensional but the plot was so scatter-brained I hardly even noticed. It ended on a nice note, too, and with a book that could’ve gone in literally any direction, I’m glad it didn’t conclude with a cleanly knotted bow.‎“When I look back at her, she’s staring up at the moon, smiling serenely at it like the moon is her new best friend, it’s telling her the most gorgeous things in the world, it would never betray her for some dumb cunts. I could never compare. I shouldn’t try.”‎Overall, I think it’s best to go into this book completely blind and to suspend all rational disbelief early on. The book didn’t suffer from too much ambition—it’s crazy, fun, and strange, and it was one hell of a ride.
  Find this review and more on my weekly book blog-slash-newsletter!
  re-read sep. 30 2022:Bunny really works with its own genius to provides a fascinating horror tale. I do think Bunny is terrifying, i mean, this book feels like going straight into madness, losing control over your persona. It’s also a satire on academia, and particularly on literature and arts students in general. It’s done in a clever and funny way that you can’t not appreciate reading it. I love how Samantha is overly relatable and at the same time, absolutely not. Because the story is so, SO surreal that you have to check twice if you read it well. It still is really good after a second time, and i still wholly love the ending (i was afraid of not enjoying it as much as i did the first time, since i knew the ‘plot twist’). Like donna tartt once said, “[…]when we read a great book we do internalize it, it becomes part of us”, and yeah that’s the case for me and Bunny. I’m intimate with some books where i’m not with others; and Bunny really is precious to me, without fully, consciously maybe, knowing why. ☻ ☻ ☻read oct. 5 2021:Daughters, sons, children of Woolf, go read this book because this is so, SO delicious!!!!!! Ok seriously, i am filled with many feelings, i can’t describe this book, i don’t think i have actual words to describe what the fuck this book is about.I think you could compare it to an acid trip that gets worse and worse on each page turned.Not a single moment, what i was reading, how strange it could be, was boring. I think i was deeply anxious and amused and speechless and sad and upset but also extremely relieved. I think Bunny is absurd and at the same time truly profound, that after closing the book the only thing i wanted to, was to grab my pen and write energetically in whatever notebook my hand could find.So if you’re curious go read this and you’ll see! I think this book is mainly an experience than a proper story. Yup, definitely happy to had read this!  first buddy read with my darling sister. we rly went through smth experiencing this together. i don’t think we are the same now  that beginning was 5 stars, my-type-of-weird shit, the second half dropped off and got a bit too abstract for me but i still really enjoyed it!!! First of all, what the actual fuck. Second of all, this book was absolutely glorious. Like creepy, but in a cute way. The kind of story I’ve secretly wanted to indulge in (like chocolate covered strawberries or gothic perfumes) for a long time, but haven’t found until now. Because damn, this book is sickly sweet and filled with so much darkness and depth and teeth that won’t hesitate to bite. But those teeth are pink, if that matters. Like death from a sugar rush. Herein are complex characters—an unreliable narrator at times-her mind in a constant state of upheaval and unease as Awad churns the reader towards a conclusion that guts you. In truth, I did pick up on how the climax might turn out as I approached those last several pages, but even so it was a wonderful read. This book radiates Carrie energy, all mixed in there with the best elements of Heathers, Scream Queens, and The Craft. With writing so visceral and vivid that I could almost taste it at times-an unadulterated mix of pink buttercream frosting, musk, and spilled blood. “We huddle-hug on the velvety green among the cherry blossom trees. We link arms. We close our eyes the better to feel each other's bodies. We form a hot little circle of love and understanding. We press our faces into our faces, our cheeks against our cheeks, our eyelashes tickling our skins like little hummingbird wings, like Bunny nose twitches.” Wow. Time to go rewatch Heathers and Scream Queens, I suppose. When I was actually reading it (and even when I wasn’t) I could not stop thinking about this story. I wanted to dive into its weird depths all throughout the day-I couldn’t get enough. But even now it sticks with me, and although the story is over this little pink beauty gets to sit on my bookshelf forever! Oh Bunny, how I adore you!  WARNING THIS REVIEW WILL INCLUDE CURSING WORDS SO IF THIS OFFENDS PLEASE DO NOT READ.What the absolute hell did i read with this book!!!! Holy shit! This has to be the weirdest fucked up book i have ever had the pleasure of reading...Wow.I also lost count of the amount of times that the word Bunny was mentioned in this book.So the actual book...Samantha the lead protagonist she was friends with a girl called Ava. They went to this High School and they would both take time to ridicule a group of girls that dressed in the most bizarre clothing and each one went by the name Bunny. Samantha is absolutely repelled by this group until she receives an invitation from the group.She accepts the invitation and this is where the book takes its second steps in to weird...sharing smutty retellings of fairytales and own experiences, The Duchess along with the other girls were just a mass of tweaking ovaries! They are obsessed with a particular disney film that involves two sisters and a dancing snowman along with an array of other fairytales.Anyone who has anything to do with this cult seem to talk in a programmed manner and it is just fifty shades of fucked up with heads exploding, drugs, a dodgy drink that all seem to consume and a fascination with masturbation where they will crack one out over anything....If you like the ultimate in weird books then fill your boots. I can say i have read it and won’t repeat the experience...wow this will be a read i will remember for all the wrong reasons. It is laughable how weird this book is but all i can say is thank christ it is done.  (CW: Graphic violence, mental illness, self-harm, animal abuse?)'The answer is the dark chill rising in me. The answer is in his face, which is staring at the swan with such love. Like she is cherry blossoms falling. Serious moonlight. Light shivering on green leaves. The answer is my mother’s voice suddenly flooding my ears, calling my name wearily, worriedly, scoldingly, Samantha. The answer is in the scent of green tea and wet leaf still hanging here and there in the air faintly, so faintly, rising from the body like a wish made. The answer is the white feathers still being blown softly, so softly, around the room by the breeze from the open window. Blowing softly through her hair like white feathers whenever they caught the light. The breeze is my lover, Smackie. Meet my lover, the breeze. Blowing softly through her hair like white feathers, blowing around her face the last time she smiled at me with love, always with love. The answer is my own heart. Which is caving in.'This book is strange. I don't know if I've collected my thoughts fully but this was not what I expected, Bunny. The lines of reality are completely blurred and I'm still letting things settle. The supernatural realisation of the creative process, the Work, was really interesting and the framing in very real, familiar university landscapes had me questioning everything. I'm still confused and a little disorientated but the writing is stunning, the story is unique and I can't wait to read Awad's new novel, All's Well. 📣 OH BUNNY, YOU'RE SO DARK AND COMPELLING, ACERBIC AND DISORIENTATING. BUT LIKE, IN THE BEST WAY. LOVED IT.  This one was recommended to me by a friend of mine and I’m glad I gave it a shot. While it’s not my normal thing, Mona Awad’s prose is crisp and she tells a good story.The whole thing is a horror/satire work on the nature of grad school work and the feeling of belonging or not belonging to a particular clique. I think the horror bits work better than the satire ones. When Awad shifts into situations of hyperrealism and dream states, she describes them with a vivid sense. I read this over the course of two days. During my sleep in between, I had some intense dreams that I could only relate to the novel being lodged into my subconscious. That rarely happens when I read (I think George RR Martin is the only other writer I can attribute that to). It’s a testimony to her talent.My issues are with both transitions and satire. Awad describes things well but she doesn’t give advance warning when Samantha, her protagonist, is going to start losing it again. I’m too literal-minded for that kind of writing; I need transitions. Also, while I think some of the aspects of satire work (as a formerly frustrated grad student), others didn’t land, particularly one big thing I can’t say without spoiling. I liked Awad’s characters. I wish she wrote them with a better sense of relationship.Otherwise, it was good to read something different and, if the premise sounds interesting, I’d definitely read another Mona Award novel.  1 month later update: a day doesn’t go by that i don’t think about this book. it was left such an impact. i can’t think about bunnies normally anymore. wtf in the best way okay I’ll be honest I didn’t actually finish this one. I just don’t know if I can?? throughout reading it I was constantly in between thinking it was it was well done or over done and I think I hit a point where..it may have been over done. writing about writing and the writing world is always tricky and definite props for awad for writing whatever the hell she wanted and writing something as fun as this. I got a big kick out of reading what I did of Bunny because it is what it makes fun of and it knows that. with that being said I still had to stop. I think I read enough to get it. I know the cover compares it to heathers, which fits, but it also really reminded me of scream queens. And you know, once you’ve seen season one of scream queens, you’ve seen scream queens. It’s over the top, and once you’ve had enough of over the top, it’s enough. Unfortunately I think some parts of Bunny might be too drawn out to really get readers through it all. I might pop back in and try to get it done. I’m curious to see where things with Ava go, but if this is truly like Heathers then I know what happens and I don’t really need to read another half of confectionary description in order to find out how it ends.  Yo wtf was this?It was already hard to get into it because I was not a fan of the writing style, and it was kinda hard to follow, but my morbid curiosity made me keep reading. I actually managed to somehow binge almost the entirety of it in a sitting, but still, wtf was this? How is this even horror? I want to say I’m just too dumb to get it, but tbfh I don’t even care to try at this point. This was hot doo doo on a plate lmfao I don’t get the hype, and I really don’t get all of the comparisons to Mean Girls, Jennifer’s Body, and other iconic pop culture references. I mean I guess I understand a little, but to even mention it in the same sentence feels like an injustice and disrespectful. 🫠After finishing, I went on Reddit to see other people’s thoughts and theories, and I read some amazing theoretical interpretations that made sense and made the book better in hindsight, but if that’s what it takes to understand it, then maybe it wasn’t portrayed/told in the best way. Then again, who even knows if those interpretations were the author’s intentions to begin with? 🤷🏽‍♀️What ever though. It could’ve just went over my head, and I could just be dumb. At the end of the day, this book was just a huge miss for me.   Spoiler-free review. I wanted to like this more than I did. I came to it based on so many readers saying how dark and weird it was....and it is those things. I think that because of how much weird-ish stuff I already read, this ultimately didn't strike me as all that out there by comparison. I like that it's grotesque and centers female characters, and that it critiques academia, and writing programs specifically, in a darkly funny way. Awad's wit shines in these critiques, without being pretentious, though that wit disappears after the start of the book. I like the whole goth-Mean-Girls-fairy-tale vibe, but it's not an entirely straightforward story. I acknowledge that I didn't always fully understand what was going on....perhaps what was real and what wasn't, due to the state of the narrator's mental health. Or just how meta this is meant to be. And I didn't expect that ambiguity, which is....good? Bad? I don't know?! Overall, it's an enjoyable book, one that most readers looking for something off the beaten path will love. I just went in with higher expectations and it fell a little short.  ReRead - Quería marcar varías cosas y realmente siento que este libro es increíble y super raro. Necesito leerlo varías veces para entenderlo mejor. -He estado algo perdido con actualizar acá pero ACABÉ BUNNY hace unos días y OMG what a book.Este es uno de esos libros que catalogaría como "stream of consciousness" (definición: modo o método narrativo que intenta "representar los numerosos pensamientos y sentimientos que pasan por la mente" de un narrador.) Básicamente nuestro narrador no es confiable y te dice TODO lo que piensa.Lo novela empieza con Samantha que es parte de un curso de su universidad junto con 4 chavas más. Estas chava son un grupo muy unido y se hacen llamar "bunnies", cosa que es un poco creepy considerando que son mujeres en un posgrado. Pero si creen que eso es lo ÚNICO creepy, dudes lo que sigue es MÁS AÚN. Cuando la invitan a pertenecer a este grupo Sam se ve envuelta en su misterioso hechizo.Esta novela fue sumamente rara PERO no pude parar de leer. Al final la disfruté mucho y me encantaría volver a leerla. Siento que será más impresionante la segunda vez.  If you're ever looking for a compelling, crazy, original and mind-bending read, look no further. Bunny does all that. It took me completely by surprise and I love when this happens. The main character is Samantha Heather Mackey, an outsider in her small creative writing class at Warren University. She is a scholarship student with a difficult past and a very dark imagination. The other students in her class are a group of rich girls which she describes as entangled, arrogant and constantly seen hugging and hanging out together. Samantha's only friend is Ava, a drop-out student who despises the upper class attitudes of the elite university's students. However, she disappears when Samantha accepts a surprise invitation from her fellow students. From then on, things are not quite the same again and when I emerged towards the end of the book, having been well shaken by a bonkers narrative but well entertained, I was relieved by the unusual ending. I will definitely read more of the author's work.    
  
    “We think we are alone. We think we are so special. We are deeply mistaken.”
  
Bunny is a dark and twisted story of how influential your peers can be in university. How caving into peer pressure can turn into something horrifying, disturbing and mind boggling. I don’t even know how to describe this book honestly. It’s simply a disturbing, odd, yet interesting story to dive into. The Bunnies feels a little cult-ish to me personally or maybe that’s just what they are because the things that they do at the “Workshop” are grotesquely horrifying. It’s almost like a cult ritual with the actual bunnies, the chants and all. A bit spooky and a bit weird. It’s a weird yet engaging book overall.I would highly recommend it if you’re looking for something horrifying yet not so, weird with dark elements yet indescribable. Mona Awad might just be my new favourite author.twitter ☆ instagram ☆ booktok   I have very lukewarm feelings about this lol I feel like whenever I hear people talking about this book, they either LOVE it, or they HATE it, and for me, this was... just okay? I don't know if it's because I missed something, because I definitely didn't hate it - and I feel like the people who hate it just find it too weird haha I found it enjoyable, but it didn't blow me away. My favourite part of it was definitely the way it talks about academia and academic people because OH BOY was it strangely almost accurate in its satire. As someone who's done many art/literature degree, I can tell you that the way these professors and students speak is... not too far fom the truth actually, which made it hilarious to me. I also loved the weirdness of it all and the writing was sharp and funny at times, but I was expecting to be a little bit more spooked by it than I was. Overall, and quite ironically, I feel like that's the kind of book that I would've loved to analyze in class, because I feel like there's something there that I missed. Or it just wasn't for me, who's to say lol   4.5/5It’s been a hot minute since I’ve read this book, but I’ve been really excited to write a review for Bunny. This book is truly insane in the best way. The main character, Samantha Heather Mackey, is enrolled in an MFA program at some liberal arts college on the East Coast. She only has one friend because the rest of the students in her program are terrifying aka overwhelming sorority girls who are no longer part of a sorority but still act like it. Also they call each other “Bunny.”Samantha somehow befriends the Bunnies and that is when things get weird, but I loved it. The story requires you to roll with the punches as it’s a bit out there. I interpreted the book as a satire-horror with lots of gore 🔪 (beware) that provides the author’s take the writing and creative process (it can get messy). I loved the story despite its very odd language, and I think it will be even more enjoyable to read it a second time while tipsy. 🤪  read for SNAPGURLS Book Club!To put it bluntly, this book is trippy and weird. I liked how the protagonist, Samantha, is probably around the same age as me as someone going to grad school soon and starting to read more NA/adult books. I now know more than ever to stay the fuck away from creepy girls like the Bunnies.I spent the first third wondering what was happening but I liked the whole creepy and cult-like vibes the club had. Admittedly, I didn’t get too into the book until the second third and expected it to get darker since it is a thriller and horror novel. I liked the writing style and our, in my opinion, unreliable narrator. The one downfall aside from the lack of darkness was that the events felt like a jumbled puzzle. Now that I think about it, that might’ve been an intention but it was still a little challenging to piece together.  I am a huge fan of all the weird fiction that's around at the moment - so much of it dark and angry and feminist - and my favourite kind is when the author does not hold back. To employ a frequently used phrase from my dear pal Zoe: they go big. Awad goes fucking ginormous in Bunny. I had real trouble putting it down for any reason, was glued to it the entire time with a half-morbid, half-gleeful sort of fascination. It could so easily have been pretentious instead of dark, or complete bobbins instead of genuinely horrifying; I'm still in awe that Awad pulled it off.I'm hesitant to say too much about the plot because I went in almost blind and I think that's the best way; I picked this up because I loved 13 Ways of Looking at a Fat Girl and this is 100% nothing like that book. I love this one more.I love you, Bunny.  wow. i cannot believe how awful this was. genuinely concerned as to how it has been shortlisted for awards? who is judging these things? the only good part of the book was getting it over and done with, the writing was pretentious, stupid, boring, same-y, and just all out annoying. the characters enraged me, the plot was stupid and so ridiculous that i couldn't grasp what was really happening - i was constantly waiting for the protagonist to wake up or admit she was on all kinds of drugs because this was that bad. the inner monologue made me want to scream. after 120 pages i knew this book was awful but gave it a chance and it absolutely did not entertain me whatsoever. do not read this. please.   I really liked how this novel started but then it became too abstract for my reading taste. This book just was not the right fit for me and to be honest, I don't think I even fully understood what was going on. I couldn't help but feel kind of dumb while reading this book. I didn't know if the whole novel was a message on social commentary, if parts of the story were metaphorical, or if some of the events were actually happening. Admittedly, I had a similar response when reading "All's Well" by this author so again, I think her writing might not be what I prefer when reading. I had heard of some incredible reviews for this book prior to reading so I'm somewhat disappointed in my response but I'm sticking with the fact that it's likely more of a "me problem" than the author's.  Described as The Vegetarian meets Heathers, this was one I could not wait to start - and I found myself doing something I haven't done in aaages, which is putting it down because I did not want the book to end. It's strange and compelling and almost as good as Helen Ellis's Eating the Cheshire Cat, one of the most underrated books of all time. Though this book is ostensibly about a young woman in an MFA program and her cruel cohort, it's even more about loneliness, identity, and the longing for authentic companionship. It's . . . so, so good. I can't even tell you how many copies of this I plan to buy for people. (Hint: a lot.)  I absolutely loved this book. It snagged me with it's weirdness. Truly original. The figurative language Mona Awad uses is absurdly perfect in a perfectly absurd way. This story tonely matches up with The Craft, and also Heathers, except with a little bit more heart. The story doesn't have a lot of story twists in the first half and mainly keeps you going with the sumptuous/decadent/f'd-up prose of an interesting Protagonist dealing with bitchy-witchy, mean girls. I found the reveals at the end and the way Awad tied up the loose ends to be truly gripping and emotionally compelling. I know people have mixed opinions on this one, but for me it's a five-star all the way.  ... huh? i'm pretty sure this is one of the MOST confusing books i have ever read in my entire life. maybe too confusing? i spent the past few days struggling to understand the GENERAL plot of this story. like where the hell are we going? what is the point of this?? why ??? i think i have read centuries-old texts written by ancient philosophers that were less confusing than Bunny by Mona Awad.i think this could have been more interesting (or enjoyable?) if it took itself less seriously, as i feel like it tried to highlight way too many themes at the same time WHILE handling the main plot which was just too much. on a lighter note, Bunny is such a cute nickname. right, Bunny?   this book was insane! i listened to the audiobook and it was so immersive that i felt like i was samantha under the bunny's influence. the story itself wasn't believable in the slightest but it somehow had a realistic feel to it? but it was wild and every time you thought it couldn't get crazier it did. all the characters were so insane to the point where you couldn't tell what was real and what wasn't. i would describe it as a combination of the secret history, ottessa moshfegh, and tender is the flesh. it was perfectly chaotic and a fun read throughout. would definitely recommend this one for anyone that's looking for a crazy story with terrible characters.  Really more like 3.5, but being generous."The Vegetarian" meets "Heathers" really ~is~ a great elevator pitch for this, but unfortunately that pitch also implies something ultimately a little more successful than BUNNY ends up being. What starts off as a traditional campus novel quickly veers into some truly surreal Oyeyemian territory... but once there, the story gets a bit lost trying to find its way back to some sense of reality. Still, the first introduction to Workshop is worth the price of admission alone: truly messed up, truly genius.  I wanted to like this book so badly. I am a fan of Mona Awad and I loved the premise of the book. I am a big fan of Heathers and the dark comedy genre. This book did not do it for me though. It is really out there and I had a hard time connecting it all together. I didn't really get where it was going and how it got there and basically, I was very confused. What I did like about it was the setting it was interesting to hear about the writing program. I received this book as part of the Goodreads Giveaways.   A witty, smart, creepy, creative and let’s be honest.. completely bananas!In a nutshell, a lonely MFA student gets caught up in a girl-cult and lots of weird shit ensues... or does it? It’s a twisted fairytale of a fever dream that is such a mashup of ideas...Heathers meets The Craft meets Frankenstein meets Alice in Wonderland with a bit of a Grady Hendrix and Tim Burton vibe! I found some parts repetitive but overall the writing is really great, and I admired the ambition. WTF-inducing fun!   if i had just one word to describe this book, it would be bacchanalian. not because of its content, though it sometimes hit those heights, but because there was a raw, unbridled, animalistic fervor to this book. it seemed to gorge on itself. disorienting and wild, it was witty and razor-sharp, filled to the brim with constantly crackling prose. a glinting portrait of the insidiousness of girlhood, how it festers and seeps into adulthood; of the heady power of isolation. awad is a powerhouse, even if i have little to no idea what actually happened.   absolutely gripping. i completely devoured this and wanted to spit it all out and read it again. it makes no sense yet i understand so much of it yet the only words i can use to describe it is this quote from the book: “and then i felt like screaming JUST SAY IT. TELL ME WHAT HAPPENED. TELL ME WHAT THE FUCK THIS MEANS.” this book is an absolute mindfuck and i loved every second of it… its not a perfect 5 and i was definitely considering giving it a 4/4.5 but so much of this book enamoured me PLEASE READ IT!  3.5 starsafter reading the first 50-ish pages i was more than convinced that i was absolutely going to love this book because THE WRITING was absolutely amazing. it’s quite unique and made me laugh at parts that weren’t even properly intended to be funny. this book was amazing until it just stopped being amazing.there were still parts in between where i was invested but it started dragging and soon i didn’t quite know what exactly was going on. anyhow…this is a well written, deranged and insane book. (in a good way)   4.5 legit I don’t know if I would ever recommend this to anyone cuz they would think I’m weird AF but at the same time I would pay anything to read this for the first time again.It blew my mind, a fever dream that never ends and just leaves you broken. Also I appreciated the writing style. Example:“I want you to stay. I don’t want you to go. Why can’t I pull these words down from the sky?” This one is so fucked up that I’m still thinking about it and probably will be for a long time and that doesn’t usually happen to me w books.Read it at your own risk.  This one got a little absurdist for me, as it veered into hall of mirrors territory and never looked back. I imagine there will be those who follow the surreal sequences more closely, but I found myself skimming whole paragraphs toward the end. A different book jumping off the premise of a weird friendship cult in an MFA writing program would have been great, but I don’t find much enjoyment in hallucinatory “is any of this even real?” tales.  i never, and i mean never, put down a book after i begin reading it. however, this novel is so boring, bizarre, and disturbing that i just can't read another page. more than half way through the story and i'm still confused about everything. i kept telling myself that it will soon make sense, but no nothing makes sense in this book. and i just don't have the time or patience to read further in hopes of figuring out the plot. not even the writing is good enough to save the story.   im so confused😭i found the writing very immersive and interesting, which definitely made the book more enjoyable, but some parts of the book felt slow. there’s so many different interpretations for this book that i genuinely don’t know what the fuck just happened. i went into this completely blind, which i think made it more of a fun reading experience, and now i want to reread it and pick up on smaller things that i missed  This book was definitely chaotic evil. While I was reading this book I had no clue what was happening and I still have no clue, so that’s that. I don’t know whether I liked it or not, but at the same time, I did want to keep reading and didn’t want to put it down. So I suppose I sort of liked it??? Yeah, no, still no clue, this book was weird lol   I’ve sat with this one for a bit now and I cannot stop thinking about it. A ridiculous, campy, satirical take on the Mean Girls culture of academia with an almost claustrophobic writing style. Icon of our times, glamdemon2004, said, and I quote, the best books are just some insane girl thinking about things - and this sums it up perfectly. Wickedly clever and so fucking weird.   ♡ 19/ 108Literally the weirdest book I've ever read but in the best way possible. Personally 'Cupcake' is my favorite bunny and I will not apologize. Bunny is such a random novel and everything that happened was completely unexpected and mindfucking. What happened in this book? Honestly no clue! Straight vibes &amp; so much fun. thank you, bunny!  Absolutely loved this story of a college student in a creative writing program who gets caught in a strange occult like group. This is a satire, and a horror and it's wonderful and creepy. The writing is beautiful and I really loved it. Thanks to GoodReads and the publisher for the copy that I won in a giveaway, but sorry for the fact that I almost definitely will never finish this after reading three "like so many/much" similes on a single page. The writing is unfortunate. It’s a very disturbing and cringe book, but it kinda works when you understand the history (you have to read this with attention because the plot it not that clearly and it has a lot of metaphors that you need to use your mind to find out the meaning behind that) This book has the audacity to make fun of pretentious creative writing students and I’m fucking here for it. The story was the best kind of campy, weird horror that’s a perfect start to spooky season. I haven’t had this much fun reading a book in so long.  It was a good one. The writing style is a bit weird, but it worked just fine for me. It might not work for many people. These days I'm reading magical realism a lot, and I had this book in my list for a long time. I finally read it. It flew past pretty well.  Hilariously dark and creative. A must-read if you have survived any creative writing program anywhere. It’s the kind of book I wish I’d written. Love the immersion into the collective “we” as well as the magical realism. Fun and funny. Wtf was this? I don't often come across books that make no sense whatsoever, so this was a somewhat new experience in that regard. It had some bits of lovely writing, but it was overshadowed by the sheer nonsense of the plot if we can even call these events that. OMG! YES! This is exactly my kind of book! Mean girls💫🧚💋meets Fight Club🫠🖤💣. The writing was Hallucinogenic. Trippy. Creative. VIVID.. So fun to imagine, watch it all unfold. I went in completely blind. This was so FUN!! Wow I'm impressed! I really liked this, it felt self aware and mysterious throughout the length of the book, and while I was initially concerned about the pacing, I was pleasantly surprised that there was much more to unfold along the way. totally nuts, gorgeously vicious; i wanted to eat the sentences. love love love Mean Girls? The Craft? Secret Window? This book is CRAZY. Review soon.  There is absolutely no way to describe this book, except to say that it is INSANE and I am OBSESSED with how good it is. This book was innovative and interesting and so different and fresh.  I won't attempt to describe this, but it's basically like Mean Girls meets Fight Club meets Carrie... basically.  Wtf did I just read? Such a weird book.. Similar to Haruki books and The Vegetarian  Well, that was one hell of a crazy, twisty ride....but, I think I liked it!  Well... that was weird.... Maybe a bit too weird? Weird. SO weird. Also maybe a little unlike anything I've read before?  I feel like I just came back from a three days rave,I am a bit disoriented, I still got no idea what I just read but i think I liked it. Mean girls?? The secret history?? Fight club?? Frankenstein?? Det här var en vild resa A complete mindfuck of beautiful writing and uniqueness. Two books that confused the shit out of me The Vegetarian by Han Kang and this one lmao Will properly review this tomorrow but for now 4.5 explosive bunnies out of 5 i. . . i don’t understand i need more modern horror like this please what the f—k did I just read???? Tried to get into this one twice but it just wasn’t meant to be. The beginning promised a wild ride. Super unexpected and interested.Lost its mojo during part 2.Tried to get it back in part 3 but ultimately fell short.  4.5/5magical realism is my bread and butter. i am satiated. i love being left with things to ponder and you better believe i am pondering!!!!! 3,5Devin je suis. As usual. J'ai mis un temps fou à le lire, c'est complètement weird mais good weird! Wtf? Maybe too weird for me, it became quite annoying at times. Not for me. Full review soon  I tried and I failed. Dnf'ed this at around 50% idk what tf that was but I think I liked it ? no review or summary is gonna do it justice  A book hasn't caused me this much trouble since Where's Waldo went to that barber pole factory. this book is so weird and i don't know how to feel. i loved-hated it i guess???? was torn between 3 and 4 stars  wish I knew my own opinions of this book because wtf. What did I just read You’ll find me googling ‘bunny, mona awad full explanation’ over the next few days. I have no clue what just happened  this book scared the fuck out of me, i will never be the same person i was before reading it.  I found this book incredibly weird and confusing. I wanted to like it 😭 I really did.  
  
2.5 maybe 3, dunno  I don't know if I blinked. This book is flawless. 4.5One of the strangest and weirdest but addictive, twisted, dark and entertaining books I’ve read in a while 🖤🐇🩸… couldn’t tell you what the fuck it was actually about though 😂  Ummm??? First book in a while that made me Google “Bunny book explained” becahse truly what the fuck did I just read  I LOVED IT!!! it's so confusing omg DNF - Niet uitgelezen. Niet mijn genre boek, was iets te “raar” naar mijn menig. Weet totaal niet waar het boek naartoe ging. 