2.5 stars?This was straight-up hilarious. The funniest creepy book ever written. Did I hear that people cried while reading this? I sure hope it was tears of laughter (or pain) because y'all need to explain.🛑SPOILERS🛑 So I got a real important question here.....how is it that main characters always read about the most pressing issues so damn slow? Like are you actually about to tell me this woman, this author, read one chapter of the manuscript per a ....day? She took WEEKS to read 19 bloody chapters. I would binge that shit in an hour. Hell, I bet even Jeremy read it in 3 seconds. But she took her sweet time like the annoying little vermin she is. Immediately I want to express just how much the heroine ruined this whole book for me. Reading from her POV was like taking a knife, exposing every nerve in my body, and pouring vinegar all over them. To be truthful I don't even remember her name. Every time it was spelt out, I read it, then instantly like my brain knows self-preservation, it erases the letters as if I never saw them. Loren? Mulan? Rowan? No clue. She kept thirsting for Jeremy, shoving her nose in Verity's business, and gatekeeping everything she learned from the hero. I mean I guess his wife did try to kill her children about a million times out of a sick obsession......but that doesn't concern you love, put down the manuscript🙂It drove me CRAZY every time Lemon finished a chapter and had to put her two cents in. Oh but she's so evil😢, oh but she's so callous🙄, she's just so horrible😩. like shut the fuck up already, you nosy, home-wrecking ass bitch. I hope you never get a good night's sleep again for what you did to my psychotic icon.I find it fitting that the villain and a character that in a sense was meant to be unlikable was my favourite the whole time. Verity really did the most while doing nothing at all.That includes: 💅Pretending to be in a vegetative state for months on end💅Opening her eyes ONLY when Leren was watching💅Running around the house like Casper the ghost💅Messing with the TV to scare the shit out of Loren💅Traumatising her son even more than he already was by talking to himSafe to say Lupon was crying, shaking, throwing up from fear &lt; and I mean like literally, she did do all three of those at one point or another💀.Whereas usually I'd be shivering in me timbers right along with the heroine, the horror aspect of this book followed by Wulun's dramatic reactions were too fucking funny, it distracted me. I put my hand on the mattress to lift myself up off the floor, but immediately shift backward onto my palms when I catch Verity watching me. Her head is in a different position, turned to the right, her eyes on mine. How I imagined Verity every time she'd unexpectedly turn her creepy head on the heroine😭😭 Alright I do apologise for that one but come on.... You can tell Verity, that silly goose, was having the time of her life and so was I.
  
    my blood runs cold when my eyes are pulled to the figure standing at the top of the stairs. She’s just standing there, watching her husband as his mouth roams over my breast. My entire body stiffens beneath Jeremy. Verity’s fists clench at her sides before she rushes back in the direction of her room. Whoever thinks that letter was real, explain this comedy (which is actually much funnier with context I promise). I was half fully hoping Verity would chase her petrified ass around the house to really seal it in, the traumatisation and future years of therapy that is.So many missed opportunities😔I bet every time she rose from her "coma" and gave Lavan another premature heart attack, she giggled like a maniac before carrying on with her bullshit. Really for that reason alone (making Lowyn age 10 years every time she took a breath), Verity will remain my fav. I actually cannot believe Jeremy fell in love with an old, smelly sock of a character that is Lavash after being married to his genius wife. Talk about a downgrade. ONCE AGAIN DID SHE MURDER CHILDREN?? Yes, but at least she wasn't creepy. I know many might disagree but I found Louwon way more hair raising. I mean the sleepwalking?? Straight outta a horror movie. He fell asleep while I was in the bathroom, attempting to abort his daughters with a wire hanger. And look.... Verity is pro choice😌💅You must understand that although the suspense was okay and plot twists, even if below average, were at least emotion-inducing.... the romance was the blandest, stalest, dullest, dryest, most flavourless, and uninspiring piece of crap I've ever read. EVER. In fact, I even scrounged up some fan castings for you guys. I had such a clear picture of them in my head, I just had to share&lt;3🥵Jeremy:🥺LumanTheir sex scenes were also about as hot as you'd expect two pieces of wood humping each other would be.Anywho the ending? We're not gonna talk about it. And not even because I was mad or shocked, I simply didn't care. Verity carried this book and she was kinda brain dead for 99.9% of it, nothing will change that power. EDIT 08.2022: 8 months later and I've decided we're gonna talk about the ending. Here's a hot take. If I HAD to pick a team, I'm gonna choose the letter. As we've already established, The FMC was a sleepwalking red flag and MMC wasn't any better. Personally being impressed with the author's ability to manipulate her readers is one of my favourite feelings, so Jeremy and the Lochness monster turning out to be the real villains would be a phenomenal plot twist... WOULD BE if this book was written better, with smart (but not obvious) foreshadowing. Unfortunately it wasn't, so the manuscript being legitimate is a more satisfying thought meanwhile the letter a more infuriating one. all in all: I know it seems like I really hated this book but if you squint a little YOU WILL SEE that I did mention some positive highlights. Like this being a comedy. A+ miss Hoover. Or how Verity was the determined, obsessive psycho of my dreams. And I did actually get sad during one scene (When Jeremy pulled his daughter out of the river).Yuh that's about it.EDIT 10.2022: I've read the bonus chapter and I liked it because they are all suffering😍  Full Review: Maybe I should stop reading Colleen Hoover, maybe its not these books and it's me. Anyhow, I am thinking the reason I keep coming back is because, her plots are very interesting and the execution always falls flat. OK...where do I even begin with this mess?The story was captivating, probably the best plot I've seen in Colleen Hoover books so far. Everything else sucked. The characters were shallow and convoluted, I tried my best to relate to Lowen, but I disliked her just as much as I dislike Colleen Hoover's other main characters. They all have similar personalities and nothing to offer. Maybe because they sound so righteous but are wrong is many places. All the characters she writes are cookie cutter adult contemporary heroines, wrapped in tragedies and trying to get through life. There is no distinct 'voice' in Hoover's characters and it's a shame because with the plots she sets, the characterization can do better. You know how some things only feel good in theory? But in practicality, they make no sense? That's how CH writes. Speaking of characters, Jeremy was nothing special either. He didn't play much of a role in the book, at least not actively. He was there to serve Verity's storyline and being the love interest. And that's that. He has a personality of a dry leaf and why both Verity and Lowen were obsessed with him...is a question for another day. Jeremy is not enigmatic, he is not mysterious, he is not anything and that's one of my biggest problems in the book. He is just so badly written, when there could have been soooo much Hoover could have done with his character. Why should I care about him?The fact that both main characters thought it was OK to cheat when Jeremy's wife was camatose in the SAME house made things worse. And they constantly try to justify this. Now I know that it was intended and everything but the fact that they showed little to no remorse was enough to make me hate both of them. The book itself does not acknowledge their cheating, there is no retribution, no consequence of their actions - everything is brushed off without thought. When a book has problematic aspects, it's perfectly okay. When these aspects are romanticized and their flaws are not pointed out (as it should be), then we have a problem. With Lowen and Jeremy not acknowledging the fact they cheated, it just sends a wrong message. Verity is supposed to be a psychotic and obsessive wife to Jeremy who had hated her children even before they were born. Again, sounds better in theory. The plotline should give you chills but ends up being cartoonish and cringey. Jeremy being a cement wall with no personality, her obsession made little sense. Still, she is a better 'character' than the other two. CH tried to write a dark character, but honestly with the wattpad-esque writing, there was no impact. I am glad that the author tried something different, and her writing has changed since her first books but that wasn't enough to cover up the bigger holes here. I have already talked about the characters, which were my biggest issue, specially because I prefer good characterisation over good plot. Here are a list of other reasons why Verity sucks. 1. It's not an erotica so why were there pages upon pages of repetitive sex scenes? In fact Verity and Jeremy's entire story was just that. It annoyed me because they clouded the story the whole time. The book was 10% story and 90% sex scenes. The publisher should market it as an erotica if that's the case??? Why is this a problem for me? Missed opportunity. Using sex as a tool to fill Verity and Jeremy's storyline is lazy writing, when those scenes could have been used to give Jeremy more personality and explore other aspects of their relationships. 2. CH might be a bestseller, but she is TERRIBLE at writing tragedy and trauma. Both are needlessly used as characters back stories and important part of their personalities but treated dismissively. The MC mom died of cancer a month ago and while it's talked about in first two chapters or so, it's forgotten quickly and Lowen in too horny to remember her. The man who died in front of her? No follow up on that trauma, nothing at all. It just served as a way for her to meet Jeremy. Hoover takes these heavy plot points to add drama, but she never treats them well enough. You do not need to shove one traumatic event in vain to add substance. A well-rounded protagonist can be formed without relying on trauma at all. If the purpose was for us to sympathize with Lowen and make her edgy, then obviously this too failed. I am not a fan of authors using trauma porn, where excessively bad events are used to riddle backstories or even current stories. This is also an obvious pattern in CH other books. MC with tragic past, an asshole love interest with equally tragic circumstances = sexy times. Jeremy's daughters died and his wife is in a coma, but his character often showed little to no sadness while there were a lot of paragraphs describing how crushed he was. Guess he too was so horny that it was OK to cheat on his wife. Oh and the solution? Transfer her to a nursing home so he could hook up with Lowen as much as he wants? Bad execution, bad writing, bad everything. The end where he realizes truth about Verity and kind of kills her? It's treated as nothing. No consequence at all? He just goes on to make a lie about the incident and live a life with Lowen...like what the fuck? Where is the PTSD? Where is the follow up trauma or messed up mental health when you become a murderer of your murderous wife? 3. THAT ENDING....THAT DAMN ENDING. I said this is in my other reviews as well but the thing I dislike the MOST about the author is her endings. She's bad at writing them. There was a huge lead up on Verity being NOT comatose and there was the whole creepy thing going on with her but in the end. No psychotic behavior at all? She just opens her eyes and admit she was lying and that's it??? Then she dies??????? Like what was the point in a psychotic character if she was gonna do that??? It all felt so flat?? ALSO the letter at the end that makes us doubt if Verity was actually a victim and Jeremy was the villain?? Like no that's not an amazing twist or anything, that's CH trying too hard. This kind of plot twist is overdone, it's a cliche you will find in horror movies or thrillers from early 2000s. I expected better. In a nutshell, I have ISSUES with this book. It could have done better. But this is where Hoover and I part ways. I won't be reading her books anymore. HEYYYYY!!! Listen to Novels &amp; Nonsense Podcast to hear me discuss this book and other one star reviews. Can't wait to hear what you think💖   Writing: offensively bad/5 | Plot: nonexistent/5 | Ending: abysmal/5  THE PLOT Lowen is a struggling writer who gets the opportunity of a lifetime to co-write a series with acclaimed author, Verity Crawford. When she arrives at Verity's home to do some research, she comes across a disturbing autobiography revealing the truth about all the tragic events in her life. Should Lowen let Verity's "dreamy" husband, Jeremy, know wassup? Or just sex him instead? Find out! MY OPINION NOW LET'S BUCKLE TF IN BECAUSE IT'S ABOUT TO BE A ROUGH RIDE (not the sexual kind Verity LOVED). I want to keep this "short", but I'm not sure I have it in me. This book tops Stay Awake and Unmissing by a MILE. I picked this up even though romance isn't my thing because I literally cannot log onto Goodreads without seeing a Colleen Hoover book. So I had to find out for myself, and I certainly did, and as they say... curiosity killed the cat. OK. SO LET'S GET INTO IT. - Lowen was unnecessary. Literally this whole story could be told without her POV. You could've just had the diary entries as a POV, with Jeremy struggling in real life, and then BAM that "twist" at the end. Not only was she unnecessary, but she was ANNOYING. BIG pick me energy. So you thought Amos choking you was rock bottom but you sexing a comatose woman's husband in her marital bed was chill? Ight. And honestly her whole sleepwalking story to create empathy in the reader was garbagio. - The writing was appallingly bad. This was BEYOND closed caption ass writing. Even a blind person didn't need this much detail. Did we need to know that Verity's writing software of choice is Microsoft word? No. Did we need to know that Lowen picked up her drink, took it to the stove, filled her bowl was spaghetti, reheated it in the microwave, then went to the fridge to grab a glass of water before sitting down at the dining room table? NO. But yet we do. - The gratuitous sex was literally like being in a 14 yo boy's wet dream. DISGUSTING. I literally skipped PAGES and PAGES of sex. What in the 50 shades of gross is this? How did it add to the story? If you're horny, there's p0rn. PLZ. We don't need this in a "thriller." ALSO. The whole "oh I was just exaggerating for the sake of it" doesn't hold up WHEN YOUR OTHER CHARACTERS ARE LITERALLY SEXING IN THE EXACT WAY YOU DEPICTED IT IN THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY SO??????? - Jeremy had the personality of a wet cardboard box. Legit how did ANYONE fall in love with the man when he said/did nothing of substance. This is what they call dickmatized. Free my ladies. - Also, also... this book did no favours for writers tbh. Saying shit like "I write suspense novels, of course I know about your girlfriend" doesn't make any sense???? I'm not like WOW HER BRAIN, I'm like... wow.... is her brain ok? What is the correlation? I'M ABOUT TO WRITE SOME SPOILERS SO SCROLL TO THE BOTTOM IF YOU HAVEN'T READ THIS BOOK - Plot holes? Nah, plot CRATERS. How did she fake the brain scans? Why didn't Jeremy just kill her when she came home from the hospital? (maybe I missed something?) Girl is up at night sneaking around opening bank accounts but can't reach out to a friend and be like HALP??? And don't use this whole autobiography as the reason, because your publisher could corroborate your story and you're telling me you never discussed it with her afterward??? ?- The letter at the end was atrocious. A perfect example of when authors try to hand-hold the reader through the twist to make sure it lands. I didn't need a perfect play-by-play of what your pretending ass was up to in a letter. I gleaned it from you just saying "SIKE I WAS FAKING." - Lowen "forgiving" or "justifying" Jeremy's double murder attempts was brutal. C’mon. Not during women's history month. PROS AND CONS Pros: I finished this and had plenty of laughs with ChantelCons: I read this  Me, rollerblading into my therapist’s office with heart-shaped sunglasses and a piña colada and dropping this book on the desk with a loud thud: Boy do we have much to talk about today!Why read Verity when you can just pull out an Ouija board and summon a demon from hell? I'm sure it’ll have the same effect. I finished this book feeling completely sapped of life, as if I've been bleeding freely for the past few hours instead of simply reading. That ending. What the hell. If I could just shake my head to dissolve the memory of it, to disarrange it somehow, I would. Because of all the things I’d braced myself for, that was not it.Right. Let's talk plot.Lowen Ashleigh is set free from the long tedium of her daily life when she’s employed by Jeremy Crawford to ghostwrite the remaining books in a popular series his wife, Verity, is unable to finish due to an unfortunate accident. Lowe acquiesces in the spirit of hope: that this opportunity would help her acquire some small measure of celebrity and that celebrity would be oxygen to the fire of her career. But nothing prepares Lowe for Verity’s autobiography, which she accidentally stumbles upon one day. For the horror of it. Verity’s secrets paint a different picture of what Lowen thought she knew of Verity, Jeremy, and their lives together. But sooner or later, as these things often go, the whole truth will spill, and the fraught waiting in-between would come to an end, with havoc and screaming and loss. “After all, this is a house full of Chronics. The next tragedy is already long overdue.”
  
  
I love books that make me backtrack my own declarations of preference. The books that catch me completely off-guard, astonish me, keep me on my toes. Verity is not at all what I expected, and I think it is all the better for it. I picked it up with a great deal of skepticism. I did not enjoy any of Hoover's previous work, and didn't think Verity would tip the scales. I’ve never been happier to be so wrong because this book absolutely lives up to the buzz.Verity is a huge departure from Hoover's catalogue. It's a fiendishly clever, mind-bending whirligig&nbsp;of a book. The plot is a hall of mirrors where everything is a vacant reflection, including the people who live there. Hoover draws you&nbsp;into a world where illusion informs reality, and time enfolds hauntingly. She lures and tricks and wrong-foots. Always, she wields her unreliable characters to stunning effect: confounding, disturbing and delighting in turn. Not only is nothing what it seems, it’s not even what it seems after it’s been revealed to be not what it seems. And I was entrapped in this story long before I even realized the net was already cast.The book's biggest triumph to me was the sheer energy threaded the pages, how it feels uncontrollable, yet it is perfectly under control by the author. I like the way Hoover makes you feel Lowe’s deep-skin unease and confusion as if it's your own. You can sense the danger pulsing all around, and while you can scarcely see the freshly hideous future taking shape ahead, you can feel it all the same. In short, if I were Lowe, I’d have gotten the hell out of there. I’d have been impressed by her courage if I weren’t too preoccupied repeating a litany of “GET OUT OF THERE, YOU IDIOT” in my head.And, oh my God, the ending. That shit struck me backhanded. I'm still reverberating from it. Because here's the thing: Verity offers its reader no solidity of truth that they could hold in their hands. Even as I was reading and rereading the last chapter I was mining it for clues, trying to make sense of something that felt so utterly senseless. Everything I’ve read up until that point felt like a false memory and I was left shaking my fist at the whole book for leaving me on such a hideous note as it did. Because, what.So, yeah. I'm going to let this story haunt me for a long time. Bold. Unrelenting. All-consuming. Creepy. Unputdownable.What I’ve come to appreciate most about  Colleen Hoover’s work—whether it’s an emotionally charged love story or in this case, her first go at suspense—is her penchant for pushing boundaries. For telling the unexpected story. “It’s got bad things in it. Bad words, bad people, bad scenes.”Hoover preempted  Verity’s release with a warning of sorts—although facetious and comical in delivery, it’s something sensitive readers should take to heart. This storyline is dark, and the lives of the characters that inhabit the pages are far from perfect—so, don’t kid yourself into thinking this is something it’s not. Verity is horrifying, maddening, and what-the-hell-inducing, but it’s also sustenance for that bibliophile looking to satisfy a craving for something different. From chapter one, it’s blatantly obvious this comes from an entirely different side of Hoover’s psyche than her typical love stories. Blood spatter accompanies the all-consuming, addictive quality of her words. Storytelling with the power to crawl inside of your mind, take over, and demand your undivided attention. Lowen’s life is literally in shambles—her mom just passed, she’s broke, on the brink of eviction and even though she’s a talented author, the crippling anxiety involved with marketing herself to fans has made her work less than popular.It’s the opportunity of a lifetime that uproots Lowen from the hustle and bustle of Manhattan to the quiet Vermont countryside. Contracted by a publisher to ghostwrite the three remaining books in an uber-popular series after the author was involved in an accident, Lowen has a ton of work ahead. Research lands her in Verity Crawford’s home office, looking for anything that might indicate the direction the author wanted to take the series. Instead, she finds herself caught-up in Verity’s life. Living in her home, sleeping in her bed, and spending time with Verity's husband, Jeremy, and their young son. Inescapable is the grief and pain marring it all. Most surprising was the level of creepiness Hoover managed to incite. A level even some seasoned suspense writers fail to attain. From someone who reads in the genre consistently and watches horror, it’s quite the feat for me to feel this level of anxiety. For my stomach to be twisted in knots, in anticipation of what’s to come—but, it happened.And that finale . 