2.5 stars?This was straight-up hilarious. The funniest creepy book ever written. Did I hear that people cried while reading this? I sure hope it was tears of laughter (or pain) because y'all need to explain.🛑SPOILERS🛑 So I got a real important question here.....how is it that main characters always read about the most pressing issues so damn slow? Like are you actually about to tell me this woman, this author, read one chapter of the manuscript per a ....day? She took WEEKS to read 19 bloody chapters. I would binge that shit in an hour. Hell, I bet even Jeremy read it in 3 seconds. But she took her sweet time like the annoying little vermin she is. Immediately I want to express just how much the heroine ruined this whole book for me. Reading from her POV was like taking a knife, exposing every nerve in my body, and pouring vinegar all over them. To be truthful I don't even remember her name. Every time it was spelt out, I read it, then instantly like my brain knows self-preservation, it erases the letters as if I never saw them. Loren? Mulan? Rowan? No clue. She kept thirsting for Jeremy, shoving her nose in Verity's business, and gatekeeping everything she learned from the hero. I mean I guess his wife did try to kill her children about a million times out of a sick obsession......but that doesn't concern you love, put down the manuscript🙂It drove me CRAZY every time Lemon finished a chapter and had to put her two cents in. Oh but she's so evil😢, oh but she's so callous🙄, she's just so horrible😩. like shut the fuck up already, you nosy, home-wrecking ass bitch. I hope you never get a good night's sleep again for what you did to my psychotic icon.I find it fitting that the villain and a character that in a sense was meant to be unlikable was my favourite the whole time. Verity really did the most while doing nothing at all.That includes: 💅Pretending to be in a vegetative state for months on end💅Opening her eyes ONLY when Leren was watching💅Running around the house like Casper the ghost💅Messing with the TV to scare the shit out of Loren💅Traumatising her son even more than he already was by talking to himSafe to say Lupon was crying, shaking, throwing up from fear &lt; and I mean like literally, she did do all three of those at one point or another💀.Whereas usually I'd be shivering in me timbers right along with the heroine, the horror aspect of this book followed by Wulun's dramatic reactions were too fucking funny, it distracted me. 
  
    I put my hand on the mattress to lift myself up off the floor, but immediately shift backward onto my palms when I catch Verity watching me. Her head is in a different position, turned to the right, her eyes on mine.
  
How I imagined Verity every time she'd unexpectedly turn her creepy head on the heroine😭😭 Alright I do apologise for that one but come on.... You can tell Verity, that silly goose, was having the time of her life and so was I.
  
    my blood runs cold when my eyes are pulled to the figure standing at the top of the stairs. She’s just standing there, watching her husband as his mouth roams over my breast. My entire body stiffens beneath Jeremy. Verity’s fists clench at her sides before she rushes back in the direction of her room.
  
Whoever thinks that letter was real, explain this comedy (which is actually much funnier with context I promise). I was half fully hoping Verity would chase her petrified ass around the house to really seal it in, the traumatisation and future years of therapy that is.So many missed opportunities😔I bet every time she rose from her "coma" and gave Lavan another premature heart attack, she giggled like a maniac before carrying on with her bullshit. Really for that reason alone (making Lowyn age 10 years every time she took a breath), Verity will remain my fav. I actually cannot believe Jeremy fell in love with an old, smelly sock of a character that is Lavash after being married to his genius wife. Talk about a downgrade. ONCE AGAIN DID SHE MURDER CHILDREN?? Yes, but at least she wasn't creepy. I know many might disagree but I found Louwon way more hair raising. I mean the sleepwalking?? Straight outta a horror movie. 
  
    He fell asleep while I was in the bathroom, attempting to abort his daughters with a wire hanger.
  
And look.... Verity is pro choice😌💅You must understand that although the suspense was okay and plot twists, even if below average, were at least emotion-inducing.... the romance was the blandest, stalest, dullest, dryest, most flavourless, and uninspiring piece of crap I've ever read. EVER. In fact, I even scrounged up some fan castings for you guys. I had such a clear picture of them in my head, I just had to share&lt;3🥵Jeremy:🥺LumanTheir sex scenes were also about as hot as you'd expect two pieces of wood humping each other would be.Anywho the ending? We're not gonna talk about it. And not even because I was mad or shocked, I simply didn't care. Verity carried this book and she was kinda brain dead for 99.9% of it, nothing will change that power. EDIT 08.2022: 8 months later and I've decided we're gonna talk about the ending. Here's a hot take. If I HAD to pick a team, I'm gonna choose the letter. As we've already established, The FMC was a sleepwalking red flag and MMC wasn't any better. Personally being impressed with the author's ability to manipulate her readers is one of my favourite feelings, so Jeremy and the Lochness monster turning out to be the real villains would be a phenomenal plot twist... WOULD BE if this book was written better, with smart (but not obvious) foreshadowing. Unfortunately it wasn't, so the manuscript being legitimate is a more satisfying thought meanwhile the letter a more infuriating one. all in all: I know it seems like I really hated this book but if you squint a little YOU WILL SEE that I did mention some positive highlights. Like this being a comedy. A+ miss Hoover. Or how Verity was the determined, obsessive psycho of my dreams. And I did actually get sad during one scene (When Jeremy pulled his daughter out of the river).Yuh that's about it.EDIT 10.2022: I've read the bonus chapter and I liked it because they are all suffering😍  Full Review: Maybe I should stop reading Colleen Hoover, maybe its not these books and it's me. Anyhow, I am thinking the reason I keep coming back is because, her plots are very interesting and the execution always falls flat. OK...where do I even begin with this mess?The story was captivating, probably the best plot I've seen in Colleen Hoover books so far. Everything else sucked. The characters were shallow and convoluted, I tried my best to relate to Lowen, but I disliked her just as much as I dislike Colleen Hoover's other main characters. They all have similar personalities and nothing to offer. Maybe because they sound so righteous but are wrong is many places. All the characters she writes are cookie cutter adult contemporary heroines, wrapped in tragedies and trying to get through life. There is no distinct 'voice' in Hoover's characters and it's a shame because with the plots she sets, the characterization can do better. You know how some things only feel good in theory? But in practicality, they make no sense? That's how CH writes. Speaking of characters, Jeremy was nothing special either. He didn't play much of a role in the book, at least not actively. He was there to serve Verity's storyline and being the love interest. And that's that. He has a personality of a dry leaf and why both Verity and Lowen were obsessed with him...is a question for another day. Jeremy is not enigmatic, he is not mysterious, he is not anything and that's one of my biggest problems in the book. He is just so badly written, when there could have been soooo much Hoover could have done with his character. Why should I care about him?The fact that both main characters thought it was OK to cheat when Jeremy's wife was camatose in the SAME house made things worse. And they constantly try to justify this. Now I know that it was intended and everything but the fact that they showed little to no remorse was enough to make me hate both of them. The book itself does not acknowledge their cheating, there is no retribution, no consequence of their actions - everything is brushed off without thought. When a book has problematic aspects, it's perfectly okay. When these aspects are romanticized and their flaws are not pointed out (as it should be), then we have a problem. With Lowen and Jeremy not acknowledging the fact they cheated, it just sends a wrong message. Verity is supposed to be a psychotic and obsessive wife to Jeremy who had hated her children even before they were born. Again, sounds better in theory. The plotline should give you chills but ends up being cartoonish and cringey. Jeremy being a cement wall with no personality, her obsession made little sense. Still, she is a better 'character' than the other two. CH tried to write a dark character, but honestly with the wattpad-esque writing, there was no impact. I am glad that the author tried something different, and her writing has changed since her first books but that wasn't enough to cover up the bigger holes here. I have already talked about the characters, which were my biggest issue, specially because I prefer good characterisation over good plot. Here are a list of other reasons why Verity sucks. 1. It's not an erotica so why were there pages upon pages of repetitive sex scenes? In fact Verity and Jeremy's entire story was just that. It annoyed me because they clouded the story the whole time. The book was 10% story and 90% sex scenes. The publisher should market it as an erotica if that's the case??? Why is this a problem for me? Missed opportunity. Using sex as a tool to fill Verity and Jeremy's storyline is lazy writing, when those scenes could have been used to give Jeremy more personality and explore other aspects of their relationships. 2. CH might be a bestseller, but she is TERRIBLE at writing tragedy and trauma. Both are needlessly used as characters back stories and important part of their personalities but treated dismissively. The MC mom died of cancer a month ago and while it's talked about in first two chapters or so, it's forgotten quickly and Lowen in too horny to remember her. The man who died in front of her? No follow up on that trauma, nothing at all. It just served as a way for her to meet Jeremy. Hoover takes these heavy plot points to add drama, but she never treats them well enough. You do not need to shove one traumatic event in vain to add substance. A well-rounded protagonist can be formed without relying on trauma at all. If the purpose was for us to sympathize with Lowen and make her edgy, then obviously this too failed. I am not a fan of authors using trauma porn, where excessively bad events are used to riddle backstories or even current stories. This is also an obvious pattern in CH other books. MC with tragic past, an asshole love interest with equally tragic circumstances = sexy times. Jeremy's daughters died and his wife is in a coma, but his character often showed little to no sadness while there were a lot of paragraphs describing how crushed he was. Guess he too was so horny that it was OK to cheat on his wife. Oh and the solution? Transfer her to a nursing home so he could hook up with Lowen as much as he wants? Bad execution, bad writing, bad everything. The end where he realizes truth about Verity and kind of kills her? It's treated as nothing. No consequence at all? He just goes on to make a lie about the incident and live a life with Lowen...like what the fuck? Where is the PTSD? Where is the follow up trauma or messed up mental health when you become a murderer of your murderous wife? 3. THAT ENDING....THAT DAMN ENDING. I said this is in my other reviews as well but the thing I dislike the MOST about the author is her endings. She's bad at writing them. There was a huge lead up on Verity being NOT comatose and there was the whole creepy thing going on with her but in the end. No psychotic behavior at all? She just opens her eyes and admit she was lying and that's it??? Then she dies??????? Like what was the point in a psychotic character if she was gonna do that??? It all felt so flat?? ALSO the letter at the end that makes us doubt if Verity was actually a victim and Jeremy was the villain?? Like no that's not an amazing twist or anything, that's CH trying too hard. This kind of plot twist is overdone, it's a cliche you will find in horror movies or thrillers from early 2000s. I expected better. In a nutshell, I have ISSUES with this book. It could have done better. But this is where Hoover and I part ways. I won't be reading her books anymore.  HEYYYYY!!! Listen to Novels &amp; Nonsense Podcast to hear me discuss this book and other one star reviews. Can't wait to hear what you think💖   Writing: offensively bad/5 | Plot: nonexistent/5 | Ending: abysmal/5  THE PLOT Lowen is a struggling writer who gets the opportunity of a lifetime to co-write a series with acclaimed author, Verity Crawford. When she arrives at Verity's home to do some research, she comes across a disturbing autobiography revealing the truth about all the tragic events in her life. Should Lowen let Verity's "dreamy" husband, Jeremy, know wassup? Or just sex him instead? Find out! MY OPINION NOW LET'S BUCKLE TF IN BECAUSE IT'S ABOUT TO BE A ROUGH RIDE (not the sexual kind Verity LOVED). I want to keep this "short", but I'm not sure I have it in me. This book tops Stay Awake and Unmissing by a MILE. I picked this up even though romance isn't my thing because I literally cannot log onto Goodreads without seeing a Colleen Hoover book. So I had to find out for myself, and I certainly did, and as they say... curiosity killed the cat. OK. SO LET'S GET INTO IT. - Lowen was unnecessary. Literally this whole story could be told without her POV. You could've just had the diary entries as a POV, with Jeremy struggling in real life, and then BAM that "twist" at the end. Not only was she unnecessary, but she was ANNOYING. BIG pick me energy. So you thought Amos choking you was rock bottom but you sexing a comatose woman's husband in her marital bed was chill? Ight. And honestly her whole sleepwalking story to create empathy in the reader was garbagio. - The writing was appallingly bad. This was BEYOND closed caption ass writing. Even a blind person didn't need this much detail. Did we need to know that Verity's writing software of choice is Microsoft word? No. Did we need to know that Lowen picked up her drink, took it to the stove, filled her bowl was spaghetti, reheated it in the microwave, then went to the fridge to grab a glass of water before sitting down at the dining room table? NO. But yet we do. - The gratuitous sex was literally like being in a 14 yo boy's wet dream. DISGUSTING. I literally skipped PAGES and PAGES of sex. What in the 50 shades of gross is this? How did it add to the story? If you're horny, there's p0rn. PLZ. We don't need this in a "thriller." ALSO. The whole "oh I was just exaggerating for the sake of it" doesn't hold up WHEN YOUR OTHER CHARACTERS ARE LITERALLY SEXING IN THE EXACT WAY YOU DEPICTED IT IN THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY SO??????? - Jeremy had the personality of a wet cardboard box. Legit how did ANYONE fall in love with the man when he said/did nothing of substance. This is what they call dickmatized. Free my ladies. - Also, also... this book did no favours for writers tbh. Saying shit like "I write suspense novels, of course I know about your girlfriend" doesn't make any sense???? I'm not like WOW HER BRAIN, I'm like... wow.... is her brain ok? What is the correlation? I'M ABOUT TO WRITE SOME SPOILERS SO SCROLL TO THE BOTTOM IF YOU HAVEN'T READ THIS BOOK - Plot holes? Nah, plot CRATERS. How did she fake the brain scans? Why didn't Jeremy just kill her when she came home from the hospital? (maybe I missed something?) Girl is up at night sneaking around opening bank accounts but can't reach out to a friend and be like HALP??? And don't use this whole autobiography as the reason, because your publisher could corroborate your story and you're telling me you never discussed it with her afterward????- The letter at the end was atrocious. A perfect example of when authors try to hand-hold the reader through the twist to make sure it lands. I didn't need a perfect play-by-play of what your pretending ass was up to in a letter. I gleaned it from you just saying "SIKE I WAS FAKING." - Lowen "forgiving" or "justifying" Jeremy's double murder attempts was brutal. C'mon. Not during women's history month.  PROS AND CONS Pros: I finished this and had plenty of laughs with ChantelCons: I read this  Me, rollerblading into my therapist’s office with heart-shaped sunglasses and a piña colada and dropping this book on the desk with a loud thud: Boy do we have much to talk about today!Why read Verity when you can just pull out an Ouija board and summon a demon from hell? I'm sure it’ll have the same effect. I finished this book feeling completely sapped of life, as if I've been bleeding freely for the past few hours instead of simply reading. That ending. What the hell. If I could just shake my head to dissolve the memory of it, to disarrange it somehow, I would. Because of all the things I’d braced myself for, that was not it.Right. Let's talk plot.Lowen Ashleigh is set free from the long tedium of her daily life when she’s employed by Jeremy Crawford to ghostwrite the remaining books in a popular series his wife, Verity, is unable to finish due to an unfortunate accident. Lowe acquiesces in the spirit of hope: that this opportunity would help her acquire some small measure of celebrity and that celebrity would be oxygen to the fire of her career. But nothing prepares Lowe for Verity’s autobiography, which she accidentally stumbles upon one day. For the horror of it. Verity’s secrets paint a different picture of what Lowen thought she knew of Verity, Jeremy, and their lives together. But sooner or later, as these things often go, the whole truth will spill, and the fraught waiting in-between would come to an end, with havoc and screaming and loss.
  “After all, this is a house full of Chronics. The next tragedy is already long overdue.”
  
  
I love books that make me backtrack my own declarations of preference. The books that catch me completely off-guard, astonish me, keep me on my toes. Verity is not at all what I expected, and I think it is all the better for it. I picked it up with a great deal of skepticism. I did not enjoy any of Hoover's previous work, and didn't think Verity would tip the scales. I’ve never been happier to be so wrong because this book absolutely lives up to the buzz.Verity is a huge departure from Hoover's catalogue. It's a fiendishly clever, mind-bending whirligig&nbsp;of a book. The plot is a hall of mirrors where everything is a vacant reflection, including the people who live there. Hoover draws you&nbsp;into a world where illusion informs reality, and time enfolds hauntingly. She lures and tricks and wrong-foots. Always, she wields her unreliable characters to stunning effect: confounding, disturbing and delighting in turn. Not only is nothing what it seems, it’s not even what it seems after it’s been revealed to be not what it seems. And I was entrapped in this story long before I even realized the net was already cast.The book's biggest triumph to me was the sheer energy threaded the pages, how it feels uncontrollable, yet it is perfectly under control by the author. I like the way Hoover makes you feel Lowe’s deep-skin unease and confusion as if it's your own. You can sense the danger pulsing all around, and while you can scarcely see the freshly hideous future taking shape ahead, you can feel it all the same. In short, if I were Lowe, I’d have gotten the hell out of there. I’d have been impressed by her courage if I weren’t too preoccupied repeating a litany of “GET OUT OF THERE, YOU IDIOT” in my head.And, oh my God, the ending. That shit struck me backhanded. I'm still reverberating from it. Because here's the thing: Verity offers its reader no solidity of truth that they could hold in their hands. Even as I was reading and rereading the last chapter I was mining it for clues, trying to make sense of something that felt so utterly senseless. Everything I’ve read up until that point felt like a false memory and I was left shaking my fist at the whole book for leaving me on such a hideous note as it did. Because, what.So, yeah. I'm going to let this story haunt me for a long time.  Bold. Unrelenting. All-consuming. Creepy. Unputdownable.What I’ve come to appreciate most about  Colleen Hoover’s work—whether it’s an emotionally charged love story or in this case, her first go at suspense—is her penchant for pushing boundaries. For telling the unexpected story. “It’s got bad things in it. Bad words, bad people, bad scenes.”Hoover preempted  Verity’s release with a warning of sorts—although facetious and comical in delivery, it’s something sensitive readers should take to heart. This storyline is dark, and the lives of the characters that inhabit the pages are far from perfect—so, don’t kid yourself into thinking this is something it’s not.  Verity is horrifying, maddening, and what-the-hell-inducing, but it’s also sustenance for that bibliophile looking to satisfy a craving for something different. From chapter one, it’s blatantly obvious this comes from an entirely different side of Hoover’s psyche than her typical love stories. Blood spatter accompanies the all-consuming, addictive quality of her words. Storytelling with the power to crawl inside of your mind, take over, and demand your undivided attention. Lowen’s life is literally in shambles—her mom just passed, she’s broke, on the brink of eviction and even though she’s a talented author, the crippling anxiety involved with marketing herself to fans has made her work less than popular.It’s the opportunity of a lifetime that uproots Lowen from the hustle and bustle of Manhattan to the quiet Vermont countryside. Contracted by a publisher to ghostwrite the three remaining books in an uber-popular series after the author was involved in an accident, Lowen has a ton of work ahead. Research lands her in Verity Crawford’s home office, looking for anything that might indicate the direction the author wanted to take the series. Instead, she finds herself caught-up in Verity’s life. Living in her home, sleeping in her bed, and spending time with Verity's husband, Jeremy, and their young son. Inescapable is the grief and pain marring it all. Most surprising was the level of creepiness Hoover managed to incite. A level even some seasoned suspense writers fail to attain. From someone who reads in the genre consistently and watches horror, it’s quite the feat for me to feel this level of anxiety. For my stomach to be twisted in knots, in anticipation of what’s to come—but, it happened.And that finale . . . stunning. I was so sure I’d pinpointed exactly what was happening and why, but I was wrong. So very wrong. Hoover mentions in her Acknowledgements that this was an indie project she wanted to branch out and write on her own, which is commendable and exciting when you think about where her inner drive might take readers next. While there’s no denying her love stories are fierce, my hope is for more suspense. To be this taken with her first try, I can only imagine what that mind of hers might dream up next.  "Find what you love and let it kill you." -Charles BukowskiWoah, this was fuuuucked up. It should really come with a warning: do not start reading this at night if you want to sleep.For two reasons, actually. One, it is so compulsively readable that it's almost impossible to put it down until you've finished it. And two, it is seriously creepy and disturbing. Warnings for depictions of child abuse and some graphic violence.Perhaps this doesn't need to be said, but  Verity is definitely not a regular Colleen Hoover romance. There's a love story, and sex, but it is predominantly a creepy thriller. And a mindfuck, if we're being honest.  Verity is mainly about three people - struggling author Lowen Ashleigh, a man called Jeremy Crawford, and Jeremy's wife, Verity, who was recently left incapacitated by a car accident. Verity is a successful writer, but she is no longer able to continue her bestselling series. That's why Lowen is brought in to complete the remaining three books. To do so, she stays at the couple's house so she can go through Verity's notes.But Lowen finds something else in Verity's office. An unfinished autobiography. As she reads, her fear grows. Lowen begins to dig into dark truths about the family and the deaths of their twin daughters. At the same time, she finds herself falling for Jeremy and wondering if perhaps she should reveal the truth to him.I don't want to say too much, but I thought it was excellent. Hoover expertly leads us on a winding trail of lies and manipulation. As the story is essentially Hoover - an author - writing about an author reading about another author, there's this constant sense that someone is lying to you-- but who is it? Now, that's not so easy to tell.
  I was good at spewing bullshit. It’s why I became a writer.
This may seem like a bit of a backhanded compliment, but I think I enjoy Hoover’s fucked-up books so much because I usually find her regular romances kinda fucked up. I like her books so much more when she's writing about trauma and morally-questionable characters than when she's trying to sell me a douche as a love interest.It's a clever book, and I don't simply mean because of its twists and turns. It's clever because of the fear and uncertainty the author creates. That all three authors create. The aptly-named  Verity is a novel about fictions and truths, about authors and characters, and about how it can sometimes be hard to separate the two.I found it absolutely riveting.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Youtube  Ok, this one has me scratching my head. I chose to read this piece of nonsense based on the myriad 5-star reviews on Amazon—I’m talking HUNDREDS. Now there are two reasons this novel may have so much positive feedback. First, it could be that there are hundreds of readers who don’t often step beyond this author’s normal genre (of which this book did not belong) and are simply ride-or-die fans. Second, it could be that I’ve gone round the twist and am missing the value. I’m betting on the former.The writing here is, admittedly, pretty amazing. Character development and plot movement, as well as the establishment of tone, is all done masterfully. What is ludicrous, however, is the plot itself. **SPOILER ALERT AHEAD** Verity is a well-known and well liked author with a huge fan base. She and her husband lose their young twin girls some months apart in separate tragedies, then Verity herself is in a car accident. The accident leaves her in a semi-vegetative state, unable to move or communicate. Her husband seeks to hire an author to finish the last three books his wife had promised as part of a series of nine. In steps Lowen, a talented author in her own right, though certainly not as famous as Verity. She travels to the couple’s home, where Verity is under constant care (fed, diapered, etc.), in order to look over the woman’s notes in preparation for the writing Lowen has been commissioned to complete. Whilst rummaging through Verity’s office, and falling in love with Verity’s husband, Lowen discovers a manuscript that is supposedly an autobiography written by Verity before her accident. It is beyond disturbing and paints the now comatose author as a raging psychopath who despised her twins, feeling only raging jealousy at the attention they garner from their father. So far so good, right? Here’s where it all goes to hell. VERITY IS FAKING HER INJURIES. Really? Doctors and nurses, specialists in their respective fields, can’t tell SHE IS FAKING IT?? For MONTHS? She has been cleaned, turned and fed and NO ONE KNEW? Additionally, we are to believe that she wrote the most disturbing things about herself and her children and labeled the manuscript an autobiography as a WRITING EXERCISE? What woman writes that she tried to abort her own children with a coat hanger as part of an exercise?? I could go on and on but I think you get the picture. Absurd is the only word that adequately conveys the entire premise. I wish someone, anyone, would have said to this author, “hey, you’re damn good, but this story just doesn’t make an iota of sense.” I’m left wishing back the hours it took me to read this insanely ridiculous drivel. Two stars for the obvious talent, but nless you are a die-hard fan of this writer, I’d skip this one altogether. How did Colleen Hoover ever think up this dark and twisted tale? It is so unique, so completely shocking that it blows away every other suspense story I've ever read.Lowen is a struggling writer when she gets an offer too good to pass up. Jeremy, the husband of successful author Verity Crawford, hires Lowen to complete Verity's series when his injured wife is unable to do so. Once Lowen arrives at their home to start compiling notes and do research, she discovers an unfinished manuscript that looks to be Verity's autobiography. What is written in those pages will horrify and haunt anyone who reads it.So many books advertise as suspenseful thrillers, but hardly any of them cause my heart to blip even a little. (I know, I'm a stone cold reader.) But this book! There is such a deliciously creepy atmosphere that permeates throughout and it got me good. I'll admit to heart palpitations, cold clammy hands, and being startled at the smallest noises. And as the story progresses and we find out more and more, the tension ratchets up to almost unbearable levels. There was never any hope for me. I was hooked from the very first page. There is a creativity to this story that makes it hard to look away. I've never read anything like this, not even close. As a result, every page was a surprise and I just wanted to keep going. And as the truth gets darker and more tortuous, I had no choice but to hold on for the ride of my life.This book employs one of my favorite formats, a story within a story. I've loved pretty much every book I've come across that uses this format, and it works especially well here. The interspersing of the inner manuscript with the outer story allows us to find out what's going on at the same time that Lowen is figuring things out.I cannot believe this is Colleen Hoover's first thriller. Reading this feels like watching a master at their craft, setting the bar higher than I ever thought possible. This story is so astonishing and unsettling and completely original. It will stay with me for a long time.~~~~~~~~~~~~See also, my thoughts on:It Ends with Us / It Starts with UsReminders of HimRegretting YouUgly Love Layla ~~~~~~~~~~~~  I've pulled up this review and tried to make the words come for a couple of days now, but every time I try to write the words all that comes to mind is WTF Colleen?! Obviously we were warned going in that this one would but much different than her other novels, but she didn't tell us that it would be so compulsive and I wouldn't be able to live my life while reading it. How dare she?? But seriously, this book was so delicious in a seriously twisted way, and I feel slightly guilty admitting that I loved Verity so much due to its dark and disturbing nature."Find what you love and let it kill you." -Charles BukowskiThere's not really much you can say about the plot here, other than read it for yourself ya filthy animal you really should just go into it blind. Obviously there are numerous content warnings,child abuse, murder, murder of a child, attempted home abortion, adultery, descriptive fatal pedestrian accident, etc.  , but it you're open to picking up this book with as little knowledge of the story as possible it will be in your best interest. "Most people come to New York to be discovered. The rest of us come here to hide."The characters here are deviously flawed, every last one of them, and I love this. I'm a sucker for storylines that feature the writing of a book inside the plot, and this was no exception. The varying between Low's present tense POV and the chapters featuring Verity's autobiography built the most exquisite tension, and by the end of the novel we are flipping pages as quickly as Low is, trying to decipher where this is going and what's going to happen. Also, that epilogue. That is all I will say, other than I'm respectful and grateful to CoHo for leaving this book without the neat wrapping and shiny bow. There are pieces of the story that are essentially left up to the reader to determine their thoughts on, and while a bloody and gruesome story, this will make a fabulous book club novel with copious discussion points. Highly recommended if you can stomach the content, but beware reader-once you pick it up, you certainly won't want to set it down until you turn the final page.  
  
Have you ever finished a book and thought… WTF did I just read? Verity is one of those books that will do that to you. Word to the wise for CoHo fans: this is not your typical book from Colleen Hoover. It’s amazingly written and it’s a completely captivating read, but it’s so different from anything she’s ever put out before. 
  “Some families are lucky enough to never experience a single tragedy. But then there are those families that seem to have tragedies waiting on the back burner. What can go wrong, goes wrong. And then gets worse.”
Verity is a complex story about an author who is ghost writing a series for Verity Crawford, an author who is injured in a way she can’t write right now- maybe ever. Her husband, Jeremy, commissions Lowen to do this work. Lowen goes to the Crawford’s house to do some research but that house and that family is more than she ever expected. While searching through old paperwork pertaining to the series Verity has written, she finds a manuscript of a truly messed up autobiography that changes her life and the life of the Crawford family forever. The word I would use to describe this book is disturbing. I was seriously disturbed the whole time I read. It wasn’t too spooky for me, but it was thrilling and horrifying at times. The writing was out of this world and the story messed with my mind. I’m not sure if I loved it, hated it, liked the characters or hated them. It’s a story that’s not always likable, but dang it was good. It was enthralling and made me think. That ending messed with my mind so bad, I don’t even know how to feel. If you’re a fan of psychological thrillers with romance thrown in and don’t mind a book that’s disturbing and thrilling because it’s also brilliant, check out Verity. I’m glad I went outside the box with this one and read it!!  ** UNPOPULAR OPINIONThis is the second novel that I've read by the author.&nbsp; I'm not really familiar with her writing or style, but I was seeing many 4-5 star ratings on this book and it was a "thriller" so that was enough to push me to give it a try.&nbsp;There are many, many high reviews for the book so I'm not here to dissuade anyone from reading it. It just wasn't a good fit for me. I&nbsp;read hundreds of thriller/mysteries and love the genre.I've read darker novels and enjoyed them, but this one gave me an uncomfortable feeling that it is hard to express. Was it because it involved the characters children? Maybe.&nbsp;Was it the graphic sex scenes? May have contributed&nbsp; Was it the improbable plot? I don't usually have an issue with this if I'm entertained. I wasn't. I can't explain more without giving spoilers.Again, this novel didn't work for me. If you decide to read it, you may enjoy it like so many others. Just my opinion. I wish I could unread it.  oh my fucking god. i finished this book at 4am thinking “what the fuck did this author do to me?!?”this shit was brilliant. idek how to comprehend this. like was everyone a victim or a villain?!? am i team manuscripts or letters?!? i don’t fucking know. tbh only Crew can set us free, he knows the truth. i don’t get disturbed easily but this shook me to the core. i could feel it in my bones. i don’t even know how to function and move on with my life. i’m a changed woman. you’ll be catching me blankly staring at walls lost in thought over this book   Brilliant author.Brillianty written.Brilliant idea.Except...I didn't like it.I didn't like the heroine. Couldn't relate to her.I didn't the hero. I didn't like the story. Implausible and kind of revolting.I normally like fucked up, unpredictable stories. The darker and more twisted the better. This one didn't resonate with me.Sorry.And watch out for triggers. cheating, death of a child  Um no. This ain’t it chief.Also that ending?? NO.I feel like the high ratings and amazing reviews for this book are mostly people who already love CoHo's books and this is their, 'dip of the toe' moment, for them in the 'thriller' genre lol.  Help me.  *Laughs hysterically* What?!Three hours later and I’m still laughing and head-shaking at the mindfuck that was this story.... what fucking bullshit!! excuse me what some people desperately need jesus and colleen hoover is one of them how the same woman who wrote Atlas Corrigan could turn around and write something this fucked up i will never know the unseasoned, Walmart brand version of Rebecca by Daphne du Maurier  my uncle in law made me read this bookMARK I READ IT ARE YOU HAPPY NOWa r e y o u h a p p y I LOVED THIS BOOK. Just posted my full booktalk on youtube (polandbananasbooks). I BLEW THROUGH IT IN TWO DAYS COULDN'T PUT IT DOWN. It's way up at the top of my coho favorites =)  It’s currently 5:00 am, and I read Verity in one sitting. Dear god this book is FUCKED UP, and I love it. I'm obsessed with twisted, disturbing, dark stuff that messes with my brain. It feels like a mix between The Silent Patient and Gone Girl. I physically could not put this book down. Definitely my favorite Colleen Hoover book I've read. This had everything I love: smut, sadness, and mind-bending plot twists. This book felt like a rollercoaster, and I implore you all to read it. Such a thrilling read.  this is not a romance or a thriller, this is a lifetime movie script ★ /5This was... stupid?I don‘t even know how to talk about this. I don‘t think this is actual mystery thriller, it is just a romance novel with a slightly different plot. Sadly, nothing about this book, particularly impressed me or intrigue me.Personally, I do not think that this book is worth the time.  I will never look at Steak n’ Shake the same way……Colleen Hoover and Lisa of Troy finally meet. Alright that’s weird. I am never referring to myself in the third person again….So what’s the scoop on Verity?In Verity, we find Lowen Ashleigh who is a down-on-her-luck author when she gets an incredible offer to finish a series by a famous author, Verity Crawford. When Lowen goes through Verity’s office, she discovers an autobiography by Verity with salacious admissions and jaw-dropping tales. What will Lowen do with the information she has discovered?This is my very first Colleen Hoover work so I will share with you my general impressions, not sure if these are hallmarks of her other books. Hoover keeps the action flowing with short paragraphs and sentences. There are no page long paragraphs here.The storytelling is top notch with gossipy revelations sprinkled throughout the book. This book is filled with steam. Steam upon steam. Steamy steam. Descriptions of steamy steam. However, please be warned that this book is incredibly, incredibly dark with some graphic depictions of child abuse. In terms of structure, Verity really reminded me of the book, Home Before Dark by Riley Sager, because it would also switch back and forth between modern day and back to an old book. The main character, Lowen, does have internal ruminations, but the author masterfully navigated these sections and did not get lost in the weeds.Verity is page-turning and reading it is certainly not a chore. There are two things that kind of bothered me, but with me, storytelling is everything. And this book had it in spades.First, the ending did not surprise me at all. Without trying to spoil anything, the ending relies on a familiar trope that I saw coming very early in the book.Second, a part of the ending did not make sense. Again, I don’t want to spoil anything, but it has to do with a certain reaction to the manuscript. Personally, if I was the editor of this book, I would have rewritten the ending, but (sadly) Colleen Hoover has not been ringing my phone off the hook.Overall, Verity is a dark, page-turning tale, and I look forward to reading more from Colleen Hoover. Highly recommended for those who are fans of May Cobb. Or try May Cobb if you enjoy Colleen Hoover.Connect With Me!Blog Twitter BookTube Facebook Insta  🎉 FIVE MIND BLOWING STARS!🎉This one is a killer! So dark and disturbing. I was not expecting to love this one so much. Colleen Hoover writes romance books. This one is a thriller. I have seen authors go from romance to romantic suspense, but never have I seen an author go from Romance to a dark and disturbing crazy thriller. She knocked this one out of the ball park. This one just blew my mind. I could not put this book down. I read it while fixing dinner and eating my dinner. I have never done this before. There are so many jaw dropping moments. All of the characters were done so well. I could just vision them in my head. I love her writing style. This was one intense read. Let me tell you this author writes so well. OMG!OMG! OMG! The ending was just perfect. I loved that twist. Wow!I am not a romance fan but loved this thriller so much that I went to the library and did the unexpected. I got her book, Without Merit. Hoover just changed me into picking up a romance novel. That's how good her writing is. This book just tied with my favorite book for the year so far. When this writer writes another thriller, I will be snatching this one off the shelves right away. I strongly recommend this book to all thriller fans that love a disturbing and dark thriller. I know! I know! I just get to overly excited when I love a book.I recommend this one to all thriller fans!!  Update So I read the bonus chapter and I’m not sure who read this and thought “say more!” but apparently enough people did to get a hardcover edition out of it. Yep, still hate everyone in it, probably more now. Low is basically haunted by Verity and some of it comes across as pretty uncool. Oh and it is no surprise Jeremy sucks more than we knew but certainly suspected. Also Low is still way too okay with Jeremy doing some murder, and like, did she think he’d just be a well-adjusted dude post-murder and not ever be dangerous again? Lol. Honestly, this is all a bit much and sort of ruins the sort-of ambiguity you could be convinced of in the last book. GUESS WHAT? I never have to say “maybe this weekend I’ll finally read a Colleen Hoover novel” again, because I finally did it. And I won’t be doing it again. Not for me really, but I see why people love this. I’m glad I did read it though because, well, this entire story is an absolute trainwreck and I do love watching a good trainwreck unfold. I mean, it’s entirely overblown to the point of absurdity and all the two main characters are more concerned with sex than the moral implications of…well, literally anything INCLUDING their sexual relations with each other, but damn does this go some places. It is entirely creepy, but also darkly funny once you know the twist because like…WHAT THE FUCK? This is successfully dark and bleak, and one you can't stop reading, I'll give it that. But like, imagining this from Verity's point of view...did she intend this as dark humor? Because wut? Also do people find this sexy? Because I have questions....is it like a Mr Rochester thing? Because this book does seem constructed around Jane Eyre nods in many ways.If you don't know the plot: Lowen, a struggling writer, is hired by Jeremy to finish his wife Verity's body of work after an accident leaves her unable to finish. Lowen finds an autobiography that reveals all sorts of juicy drama and murders, but decides to just have sex with Jeremy instead of do much about it until she can find a way to ensure Verity's story will get him to run away with her instead. Ill-advised, Lowen, ill-advised. Bonus points if you just pretend this is someone finishing Sue Grafton's alphabet series. Would have preferred that, honestly. Here's a handy guide I made:
  
Its unfortunate that without the narrator in the book it probably would have been a more tense storyline. Lowen is really here just for the sake of sex scenes, and there are many. You know how Murakami can’t let a breast go undescribed? Hoover does that but for cum shots. Of which there are many. But one does not enter a novel like this (gross, why would I put it that way in this context?) for the sake of good writing but for a thrilling plot. Which, I will admit, this has. Albeit poorly constructed—I mean EGREGIOUSLY bad choices are made and nobody seems all that concerned with actually doing anything useful—but it will keep you flipping pages. Mostly to see if hopefully they all fucking die instead of just keep fucking, but whatever. You do you, Lowen and Jeremy. Wouldn’t recommend it, but we’re all grown adults.Seriously though ,so much of this book makes zero fucking sense. Like, I LOVE suspension of disbelief. But COME ON. How’d homegirl fake the brain scans?Also, Lowan is just like wow I have the answers to all sorts of wild shit but I’m only going to read a few sentences of it a day then make a trite comment and get to pantsless time with Verity’s husband. What is the time frame of this book? You are stuck in a house with possible murderers and you’re like NAH I won’t read their tell-all too quickly? But she can’t because apparently she’s gotta keep banging Jeremy, who is also technically her employer but there is no HR so fuck it, fuck. With Verity possibly watching? Christ. Also, wear a condom. Please, I beg you. What part of this tangled and weird situation made anyone think "hmmm maybe a pregnancy would help?"Everyone is WAY too cool with murder in this too. Verity is a Medea-figure here, one who uses sex as a means of control and ranks how she values Jeremy based on the quantity of sex they are having, so I guess its no surprise she’s down to murder and not give two shits. But then there is also the ending. I wanted to like it. I mean, okay this whole book plays with ideas of duality—the twins as two sides of Verity’s personality, the two possible truths at the end—but Hoover is WAY too eager to walk you through showing to point out how clever it is. She’s practically yelling “VERITY MEANS TRUTH! GET IT?!?!?!?” So yea, this is fun enough I guess? I see the appeal. It’ll make a great movie when it inevitably happens. It could really only be improved upon, like, maybe actors will put some personality into these lifeless characters. The biggest plot hole in this is that two different people were in love with Jeremy, he’s as unlikable and bland as possible. Imagine Lowen having sex with a loaf of stale bread that is as down to kill as it is down to bang. You can now say you’ve read Verity. This is a book for the sake of fun and entertainment and gotta say, I was entertained. I hate everyone, I mean, these characters make Sally Rooney characters seem like wonderful people. To be fair, half the point of this book is to read some steamy sexy times, which there are many, but it sort of becomes annoying when the plot is so engaging. They break for sex again and it’s like NO, STOP, THERE ARE MORE PRESSING ISSUES, I NEED ANSWERS. Children are dead and everyone’s just like hey I’m horny. I get it, we all like sex but damn people. These people would all die in a horror film because the monster would be after them and they’d be like “fancy a quickie?” “Sure, J-bear, why not —— oh no my face is being eaten by this monster!” And Jeremy would be like “HOT.” And try to seduce the monster I guess? I don’t know. Anyways now I can say I wasn’t lying when I told people every day of my life in a bookstore or library for the past year that, sure, I’ll give Hoover a try. Mission accomplished.3/5 because, in all fairness, it mostly accomplished what it set out to do.  Wow! Another Flashback Saturday and I’m rereading, reviewing ( alternated version) and discussing another brilliant and one of my favorite Colho novels. And surprise it’s a mindf*cking, WTH I just read kind of jaw dropping, intense, shocking thriller. Yes, there’s semi- white Colho writes about angsty love stories about sweetest characters and there’s very dark Colho who writes thrilling, heart pounding, disturbing stories about not so sweet characters.This book is an absolute product of dark Colho targets psychological thriller lovers.  Verity has three main characters: ghost writer Lowen, grieving father and charismatic husband Jeremy and his poor ill wife/ a phenomenal best selling author Verity! All of them are dealing with inner demons kind of flawed, exhausted, damaged characters.  Lowen and Jeremy meets in the middle of the tragedy. They witness a man’s dying in the middle of Manhattan street. A truck hits a man as he checks his phone and his blood splats on Lowen’s shirt. Jeremy wants to help her, following Lowen to a men’s restroom at a cafe and borrows his white shirt because Lowen is in a hurry. She will have an important meeting with her publisher. Guess who bumps into her in the elevator and pushes the same floor button? Lowen and Jeremy meet again and not so coincidentally they are attending the same publisher meeting.  Lowen finds out her publisher wants her service to finish famous author Verity Crawford’s last novels of very popular series. And dear Jeremy I’d husband of Verity! Sorry Lowen, your bizarre love story about the girl meets the boy in a tragic circumstances took a frustrated turn!  Well, Lowen sees this as a good chance for her career. After she loses her mother to cancer, she needs to focus on something and Jeremy who recently pulled out her little daughter’s body from the lake, dealing with his sick wife who is paralyzed, incapacitated because of car crash, lying on a bed all day were perfect traumatized team for finishing this job. Lowen feels attraction to Jeremy from the beginning but he’s married man who is grieving so she shouldn’t take advantage of his situation, should she? But when she finds the secret manuscript of Verity changes everything! Verity poured out her dirty secrets, her complex feelings to this manuscript: a kind of manifestation tells how far you go to be the best author! I’m stopping right now! But I have to admit: this book is a product of genius brain! Especially that WTH ending was brilliant! I absolutely highly definitely recommend it!  I was really hopeful Layla was also a thriller like Verity but it turned out as paranormal romance.But I’m still keeping my hopes up and wish dark Colho comes back sooner to release more spine tingling books like this. This book was disturbing in a way that is hard to put in words. Verity is pitched as a thriller and a romantic suspense book. Well, allow me to be as candid as I can: "Verity is a mind-fuck". Is Disturbing. Twisted. Creepy. It will have you questioning things. Brutal. Haunting.There is no question, the story is hypnotizing. ENGROSSING even if alarmingly disconcerting. And the cherry on top? The ending. That probably held the most savage plot twist I have encountered in a romantic book.If this is the niche that CoHo find and stick, baby I'm yours for life!Verity is not an easy read. I am not really even sure if I can say it was an enjoyable read. But it was brilliant. Amazingly well written and unputdownable, Colleen will leave you questioning everything.By the end of the book, I hate all characters....Thank you so much Kim for your indirect recommendation!  
  4.5 starsA manipulative mind f*ck that will keep you guessing!Verity is a psychological thriller in which the lines between fiction and reality blur together creating an illusion of truth. 
A struggling author is offered a lucrative deal: continue writing the popular a bestselling series, get out of debt and be in the presence of a sexy man. SOunds too good to be true? Lowen Ashleigh must find out for herself. She heads to Vermont and begins her journey into famous author Verity Crawford’s mind. While digging through Verity’s notes, she comes across a manuscript which appears to be Verity’s autobiography. Lowen gets caught up in Verity’s story that weaves together a tale of obsession, lies, and death. But one must wonder, is Lowen reading fact or fiction?This book sucked me in from the very beginning--it’s addictive and VERY hard to put down. Verity’s chapters were truly batsh*t crazy. Lowen’s narrative was quite interesting as well, but there were times when I was begging for her to pick up Verity’s manuscript again so that I could read another chapter of craziness. I had a theory early on and, while I was correct, I am still left wondering over the truth of Verity’s story.  Verity has all of the elements of a good thriller: It’s intense, dark, and very twisted. Best of all, it still has me questioning the different versions of the truth presented!Thank you to all of my Goodreads friends for putting this book on my radar!   want to know whats even more shocking than this dark and twisted book?? its the fact that one of the most suspenseful stories i have ever read is written by my fave romance author! like, how in the world does that happen!?! my mind is absolutely blown.im usually wary of when authors try to branch out beyond their known genre of writing. i respect it, but sometimes it doesnt work out for the best. luckily, CoHo totally smashed it with this! i am beyond shocked at how creepy and thrilling this story is. its as disturbing as everyone says it is. i honestly read it one sitting - its so compulsively easy to consume. and that ending! omg. i am reeling!i had no idea that CoHo, the queen of love, has such a sinister imagination, but i am here for it! i really hope she does more psychological thrillers in the future because my brain, my body, my soul is completely overwhelmed in the best way possible. ↠ 4.5 stars  No apto para todos los públicos.Mi primera experiencia leyendo un libro de Colleen Hoover ha sido más que satisfactoria. Sé que no es una autora dedicada a las novelas de misterio o thriller, pero sin duda ha sido una muy buena primera toma de contacto con su estilo y sobre todo, con su manera de crear conflictos y personajes bien definidos y desarrollados.En Verity. La sombra de un engaño tenemos una historia sobre una autora más bien desconocida que es contratada para continuar escribiendo una saga superventas de novelas de misterio debido a que la autora se ve impedida físicamente para hacerlo. ¿Qué puede salir mal? Todo el mundo sale ganando. Excepto que al llegar a su casa encuentra un manuscrito misterioso, nada más y nada menos que la autobiografía de esta autora. Lo que la protagonista encuentra en ella es cuanto menos escalofriante. El juego que plantea la autora de mezclar la narración de la trama de Lowen con el manuscrito de Verity me parece genial, ya que se va descubriendo poco a poco lo que sucede o ha sucedido, mientras te mantiene enganchado desde el primer momento. Además, en ambas partes hay momentos eróticos muy bien narrados, que le dan una nueva dimensión a la historia. En cuanto a ritmo, en serio, brutal, no podría estar mejor planteada y narrada.Si digo al principio de la reseña que no es una novela apta para todos los públicos, es porque es verdad. Había momentos donde me quedaba con la boca abierta, cosas muy desagradables y violentas que nunca había leído en un libro. Honestamente, brutal dar ese paso. Creo que es necesario también que se narrasen para comprender todo con pelos y señales y me ha parecido valiente por parte de Hoover dar ese paso.Como digo, el libro engancha desde el primer momento. Ya no solo por el ritmo, lo que es evidente, sino también por los personajes. Lowen es increíble, pero Verity lo es más. Ah, y Jeremy. Son personajes que llegas a conocer a fondo y que tienen sus propios secretos y mentiras, tensiones, sexo y muchas otras cosas más, pero todo a su debido momento y con coherencia dentro de la narración. Nada es forzado y terminas la novela sintiendo que algo de este libro tiene que ser verdad. Muy buenos personajes, redondos. Respecto al final, sí que he sentido que podría haber sido mejor. Mis expectativas eran otras, y aunque creo que plantea algo interesante, no podía dejar de pensar en el potencial que había para hacer algo mucho más loco. Sin embargo, esto no ha evitado que me haya parecido un buen broche final, solo que quizá esperaba otra cosa.Verity. La sombra de un engaño me ha sorprendido para bien, es adictivo, desgarrador y trata temas más que interesantes. Volveré a leer a Colleen Hoover sin ninguna duda. Bravo.  Can a novel be - Brilliant and silly, - Straightforward and bewildering,- Engrossing and vexatious at the same time?The answer to the above question will almost always be no. Colleen Hoover somehow managed to pull out the unthinkable through this novel.Verity is the story of Verity Crawford and her family. She is a bestselling author who is bedridden after an accident. Her husband, Jeremy Crawford, hires a struggling author, Lowen Ashleigh, to complete Verity's series. Lowen is offered a good amount for writing Verity's books, and she arrives at Verity's home to research Verity's works and writings before starting her work. What will happen to Verity and Jeremy after Lowen's arrival? Colleen Hoover answers it through this novel
  Why can we call this novel brilliant?
The brilliance related to this novel starts from its cover (2022 paperback edition). There is a lot of thought went behind making this book cover. We can interpret the cover in at least five different ways. (I can't mention each one here as they will be all spoilers and hinders the reading experience of those who haven't read this book yet. But you will understand it when you look at the cover after you finish reading this book and contemplate it for some time). I haven't seen many books with such a brilliant cover with so much meaning hidden behind it before. We can see this same brilliance also behind the author's thought process in many parts of the story. 
  Why can we call this novel silly? 
 One of the main male characters of this novel is Jeremy. The character arc of Jeremy is one of the silliest I have seen in a thriller. 
  Why can we call this novel straightforward? 
The story and whole plot of this novel can be said in just one single line. I successfully predicted the entire story and plot of this novel by carefully observing the cover and reading the blurb. Yes, the whole plot of this novel is hidden on the book cover. Even though we can have at least five interpretations of the cover after finishing the novel, we will be able to interpret it in only one or two ways before starting it. I have never been able to predict the story of a book with such precision before. We can say that this book is so straightforward. 
  Why can we call this novel bewildering? 
I was indeed successful in predicting the full plot of this novel. But the funny thing is that it took me the highest number of days to fully understand what exactly happened in the end after finishing this novel. I finished reading it a couple of weeks ago. It took me two weeks to fully understand what happened in this book's last part.I was totally confused after finishing this book (Just like many other readers). The last two chapters are written in a confusing way. I don't know whether the author wrote it in a confusing manner deliberately or accidentally.I read the last two chapters two more times after finishing this book. I checked almost all the reviews of this book on Goodreads, youtube, and all other social media platforms. I also watched many Colleen Hoover's interviews to get the gist of the ending of this novel.After too many interpretations of the climax, I was able to conclude that satisfied my conscience about what actually happened in the end. And ironically, that explanation of the ending was exactly the same one that I predicted from the interpretation of the cover in the beginning.I think a good thriller should either answer all our questions and perfectly solve the jigsaw puzzle in the end or give the necessary clues to the readers that pave the way for correctly predicting what actually happened. The author lost a golden opportunity here to end this novel in the best way possible. I wondered why the author ended this book in a perplexing way after so much effort in the beginning. Colleen Hoover explains the reason behind it in this book's acknowledgments. "I'm sorry the ARCs for this particular book were such a hot mess. That happens when you don't finish the book until four days before release. - Colleen Hoover”  
  Why can we call this novel engrossing? 
The plot of this novel was simply engrossing. It was unique in its own way. I haven't read any thriller with a similar plot. The author didn't try to go through the easier route of making the protagonist a psychologist or psychotherapist like most contemporary authors. The plot will keep you glued to the book from the beginning to the end.
  Why can we call this novel vexatious? 
The flashback described via manuscript was a brilliant opportunity for the author to write a book within a book to flesh out the main characters. She started the manuscript brilliantly. The reader in me was inquisitive to know about Verity's version of the story. But after a few chapters, the manuscript turned into some sort of erotica. There were just sex scenes mentioned in it and nothing else. Ironically, even Lowen gets irritated by it after some time due to the same reason while reading the manuscript. Colleen Hoover also gave an explanation for this in one of her interviews. She said she considered this novel from just the perspective of Lowen and not any other characters. That might be why Verity's perspective in the manuscript is not well written, which will irritate some readers.
  What I learned from this book 

  1) How can tragedies affects families?
The author shows us how tragedies will break the equilibrium of the families through the way the Crawford family was finding it difficult to cope with the difficult situation. "Some families are lucky enough to never experience a single tragedy. But then there are those families that seem to have tragedies waiting on the back burner. What can go wrong, goes wrong. And then gets worse”  
  2) Do houses have souls? 
This is a tricky question to answer as we can't fully answer this question scientifically. But some people say that they get positive energy or vibe when they enter certain houses. The author is trying to discuss this aspect through this novel "My mother used to say that houses have a soul, and if that is true, the soul of Verity Crawford's house is as dark as they come."  
  3) Does people in bigger cities have lesser empathy?
In bigger cities like New York, people will be leading busy life. They sometimes will have lesser time to consider others well being. But that doesn't give us the license to say that they have lesser empathy. It depends on the location and type of people we select for the study. It won't be easy to conduct such a study in cities like New York as it is a cosmopolitan city, and people from different cultures have different empathy levels. We will have to select a large number of subjects to get an accurate picture, making it almost impossible to conduct a similar study.But Lowen thinks that people in cities have lesser empathy. I can't agree entirely with what she is saying. "If I were still living in Virginia, this would play out in a completely different manner. Everyone around would stop. Panic would ensue, people would be screaming, a news crew would be on the scene in a matter of minutes. But here in Manhattan, a pedestrian struck by a vehicle happens so often, it's not much more than an inconvenience. A delay in traffic for some, a ruined wardrobe for others. This probably happens so often, it won't even end up in print."  
  4) Can New York be considered a paradise for agoraphobics? 
This might sound like a foolish question as we know that NYC is a city with the world's famous extroverts. How can people with panic attacks associated with places survive in this environment? Colleen Hoover perfectly answers it through this book. "Luckily, a Wi-Fi connection and a credit card make it easy to live life completely indoors in Manhattan. Anything and everything a person could possibly need can be delivered.Funny how one of the most populated cities in the world can double as a paradise for agoraphobics.”  
  5) What are all the difficulties faced by struggling writers? 
The author tells us all the struggling writers' problems through Lowen's character. "Your books do okay, but not well enough to secure another contract without sacrificing some of your time. You have to agree to engage in social media, go on tour, build a fan base. Your sales alone aren't cutting it in the current market.I was afraid of this. A contract renewal with my current publisher was all the financial hope I had left. The royalty checks from my previous books have dwindled along with my book sales. I've done very little writing this past year because of my commitment to my mother, so I have nothing to sell to a publisher."  
  6) What will you do if you are attracted to your friend? 
The author tells us that if a person is attracted to their friend, there is only involved or not involved, and there is no in-between. We can't say that this concept is applicable to all human beings. There are many exceptions to it. But we can say that in a general case, what the author tried to tell is somewhat true. "If we were friends, I would do something to comfort him. Maybe grab his hand and hold it. But there's too much inside me that wants to be more than his friend, which means we can't be friends at all. If an attraction is present between two people, those two people can only be one of two things. Involved or not involved. There is no in-between.And since he's married...I keep my hand on my chest and I don't touch him at all."  
  7) Why is it important to diagnose Sociopaths and Psychopaths in your life? 
 It is imperative to understand whether you are dealing with a sociopath or a psychopath in your life. Otherwise, they will destroy your life before you even retrospectively start thinking about them. The author tells us about the dangers of having a psychopath in people's life.  "I've been under the impression that that individual might have been a sociopath, but now I'm leaning more toward psychopath.I put the manuscript away and use their computer to refresh my memory of the exact definition for psychopath. I scroll through every personality trait. Pathological liar, cunning and manipulative, lack of remorse or guilt, callousness and lack of empathy, shallow emotional response.That individual displays every characteristic. Psychopaths find it more difficult to fall in love, and if they do, it's difficult for them to retain that love. They tend to move on quickly from one person to the next."  
  My favourite three lines from this book 
 “The world was her manuscript. No surface was safe.”  “No one is likable from the inside out.”    “Let’s speak to the specialist first because the internet isn’t the place we need to seek out answers for our daughter."   
  What could have been better?
The author should have taken a little more time to write the final two chapters of this book in a better way. 
  Rating 
 4/5 This is a tricky book to rate. We can never call this book a perfect thriller. But still, I can easily say that it will give you a good reading experience, especially if you are a fan of Colleen Hoover's books.  this is not what i would call... goodreading the romance finalists for the 2019 goodreads choice awards Ugh what the fuck just happened? 😟😟😟 That end!!! I can't believe it... OMG I need more, this book can't end like that... I still have questions... 😫😫😫  Okay, it's quiz time.What do water crackers, iocaine powder, and Verity have in common?...Give up?They are all completely tasteless.Unfortunately, that's potentially the kindest word I can think of to describe this book. Lowen is a writer with an interesting task...becoming ghostwriter to hit writer Verity, now incapacitated after a tragic accident. She must pick up where the author left off and husband Jeremy is all too happy to help make this happen. As Lowen dives in, she uncovers a manuscript of Verity's with some disturbing information in it...deadly information, in fact. As she continues to read and unravel Verity's mysterious past and her own feelings for Jeremy begin to deepen and take root, Lowen begins to find out things she wishes she hadn't about the death and tragedy in this couple's life...and is Verity REALLY stuck in that bed? This is potentially the internet's most hyped book...and days later, I am still not sure why. There was not a single moment throughout reading that really grabbed me and got me frantically page flipping.The gratuitous and somewhat graphic sex scenes? Sure, they were there. But they were fairly repetitive and not as important as I'd thought they would be.Verity's manuscript? Seemed to go on forever. I kept waiting and waiting for all of the salacious twists I'd heard about...but everything I came up with in my mind was more exciting than the actual reveal. For instance...I was pretty sure Jeremy had written "Verity's" manuscript for most of the book...and honestly, to me that would have been a more interesting ending. But that's another rabbit hole! And then the part that disturbed me most personally, as a new mom...completely disgusting and gut-wrenching sections of child abuse that were over the top and unecessarily graphic. I mean, kudos to Hoover to be able to be that far removed from her care for her own children to even write those words...but as a mom to a 6 month old, I almost got physically ill and was in tears reading these sections. I normally can handle TW type content...but this is one instance where I would love to forget ever reading those passages. So fair warning to all parents out there!I don't feel disgusted after finishing this book, but it has left me with very mixed emotions about trying another read from this author. I got this book on a Kindle daily deal for free a while back...and in this case, I feel I certainly got what I paid for...but not what I bargained for.2.5 stars, rounded up**Please check out the glowing 5 star reviews for this one from many other incredible readers and reviewers! This was clearly not a fit for me.**  Verity left me completely speechless, unsettled and unabashedly begging CoHo to write more thrillers!!!I found this story creepy, dark, addictive and absolutely unputdownable. Hoover has quite an imagination and as an avid thriller reader I was immediately drawn into the creepy world she created within the Crawford's home. 
  "My mother used to say that houses have a soul, and if that's true, the soul of Verity Carwford's house is as dark as they come."
Lowen Ashleigh is a struggling writer with no family and no place to call home. She is approached by bestselling author, Verity Crawford's husband to complete the last three books in a successful series his injured wife is unable to finish. Drawn to Jeremy Crawford and needing the financial stability this arrangement would provide Lowen agrees to complete the books and finds herself a guest in the Crawford home as she sorts through Verity's papers. 
  "Some families are lucky enough to never experience a single tragedy. But then there are those families that see to have tragedies waiting on the back burner. What can go wrong, goes wrong. And then gets worse."
The Crawford's have experienced devastating tragedy in the loss of their twin daughters. Lowen can't help but feel sympathy for the grieving Jeremy and his remaining son. Then she uncovers Verity's unfinished autobiography. Page upon page of bone-chilling, psychotic admissions. As Lowen uncovers Verity's deepest, darkest secrets things between her and Jeremy begin to intensify. But is all as it seems within the Crawford house?There were many chilling &amp; disturbing moments here both in the present and via Verity's autobiography which we get to read select chapters of along with Lowen. I loved this foray into the romantic thriller world and certainly hope we will be seeing more of this from Hoover in the future.  Although I really like Hoover's plotting for the most part, I am not the biggest fan of her writing style. I enjoyed her foray into suspense. There are some good twists here that really propel the plot forward and kept my interest throughout. I'm just not a fan of the immense amount of gratuitous sex in her books. I get to the point where I just skim through those parts to find the true story. And using the children in the way the characters/author uses the children totally turned my stomach. So much of this book is completely implausible, but it makes this psychological thriller darker and even more disturbing.I can't write more because I don't want to give anything away. I'm obviously in the minority because most people think this book is amazing. I thought it was ok, but I think the author and I don't really mesh with our styles overall.  I've just finished 'Verity' and wish it were possible to open up my skull, take out my brain and dip it in disinfectant. It's such horrible, nasty trash that I feel a bit 'dirty' for spending 99p of my hard earned money on something so unpleasant. I never heard of Colleen Hoover before and on the strength of this, I've not missed much and I won't be giving her a second try. I read a lot of mystery/suspense and consider 'Verity' to be third-rate and predictable suspense with a lot of gratuitous and unpleasant sex thrown in to spice it up. I'm still feeling icky about the bite marks on the bed frame and wondering HOW somebody can do that and not knock their teeth out. Not since Bobby Ewing's shower scene in the mid 80s Dynasty has there been such a ludicrous plot twist as 'Verity' relies on. What a waste of the roughly 4 hours it took to read.The trend for the novel without a hero (as Thackery styled 'Vanity Fair' many many years ago) has been really popular in the past 5 years or so. Books lacking any sympathetic or likeable characters are 'big' but aren't we at the stage of wanting something new now?Sorry to those who clearly love it but from my perspective, this Hoover sucks!  EHHHH, es que sí me gustó, pero ayyyy.Creo que la historia es buena, me mantuvo intrigada y hubo partes que me horrorizaron. Incluso hubo partes que me ASUSTARON, ¡puntos por eso!Mi problema fue que odié a la protagonista. Y al protagonista también. Verity era el personaje que Colleen creó para que todos odiáramos, pero definitivamente me parece el personaje más fascinante e interesante de la novela. Y estoy consciente de que en esta novela, todos los personajes son de moral cuestionable, ninguno podría considerarse "el héroe" o "el bueno", todos tenían más momentos despreciables que momentos en donde pudiéramos empatizar con ellos. Y como dije, especialmente la protagonista me desesperaba mucho. OH, y no me hagan hablar de la relación "amorosa" que se fue desarrollando. Creo que el libro hubiera estado mejor sin esa historia de amor, porque en serio, fuera de eso, ¡la trama era increíble y atrapante!También... me gustó el giro que da al final, pero no me encantó cómo fue ejecutado. Me hubiera gustado que llegara más de golpe, y que no se tuviera que explicar con tantas páginas. Tal vez era necesario, pero siento que pudo haber sido de otra forma para causar más impacto.EN FIN. El libro me gustó, hasta ahí. Y mis partes favoritas fueron las del manuscrito de Verity, cada vez que tocaba un capítulo de ese manuscrito, yo terminaba horrorizada (y extrañamente fascinada).  4.5 ⭐ for this book that is creepier than I expected! A book within a book and, like Lowen, I couldn't stop reading 𝘚𝘰 𝘉𝘦 𝘐𝘵. Even though seeing the bits of dinner that sometimes gets stuck in my son's braces doesn't turn my stomach as much as parts of this story did 😉Thank you Bren for your fantastic review that motivated me to read this!!  4.5 Stars —- I decided to read “Verity” by Colleen Hoover after seeing it had a full 5 star rating on Amazon with almost 2000 reviews. I never heard of Colleen Hoover, and when I discovered she primarily wrote romance novels, I almost didn’t read the book. After reading a plot summary and a few of the rave reviews I decided to give it a shot. After reading this book in less than 4 days, I can tell you Hoover is the real deal. The story is told from the perspective of Lowen, a struggling author, who is offered a lucrative job offer of finishing the final two books in a series by a very successful author who had been seriously injured in a car accident. She accepts the offer and goes to the home of Verity, the author who lives there in a vegetative state with her husband Jeremy. She agrees to stay for several days in order to go through all the notes and manuscripts of Verity that she keeps at the residence. This is where the book takes off as Lowen moves from investigating the prior works of Verity to investigating the lives of Verity and Jeremy. This author does a great job of building suspense and fear into an excellent plot. I couldn’t put it down. It definitely surpassed all expectations, and I hope Hoover decides to leave her days of romance novels behind her. The only criticism of the book is that you could tell Hoover enjoys writing about sex and for a thriller there is way too much detailed descriptions that were really unnecessary to the plot. But with that said I am a huge fan and will definitely be back if she writes another suspense novel.  Unpopular opinion ahead! (Also many, many spoilers.) A lot of purportedly intelligent people have to make a lot bizarre, nonsensical, baffling choices to get us through this storyline. How this book should have gone:1.	Lowen finds the manuscript.2.	Lowen begins to read the manuscript. 3.	Weird crap starts happening in the house. 4.	Lowen immediately tells Jeremy.5.	Lowen gets to one of many graphically gruesome child abuse scenes in Verity’s manuscript.6.	Lowen hands Jeremy the manuscript and says, “read this.”7.	Lowen leaves.8.	The end.How this book goes:1.	Lowen finds the manuscript.2.	Lowen begins to read the manuscript one tiny chunk at a time, spread out over weeks, so as to pad the entire length of Verity.3.	Weird crap starts happening around the house. 4.	Lowen ignores the weird crap or convinces herself she made it up because…she sleep walks? (Something that was discussed so thoroughly I thought it would have a point. But it didn’t?)5.	Lowen gets to one of many graphically gruesome child abuse scenes.6.	Lowen takes a break from reading the manuscript, writes a novel (all off screen), develops sudden feelings for Jeremy, then continues to read the manuscript.7.	Lowen consents to having Jeremy lock her into her bedroom from the outside, so as to prevent her sleepwalking all over the house.8.	Lowen has unprotected sex with Jeremy with his wife and child upstairs.9.	Lowen realizes Verity killed Harper, sees Verity moving on camera, confronts her, and finally shows Jeremy the manuscript. 10.	Lowen helps Jeremy kill Verity.11.	Lowen moves to North Carolina with Jeremy, where they will raise the baby with whom she is now pregnant.12.	But surprise! The whole manuscript was JUST A WRITING EXERCISE DUH13.	The end.Additional notes:The first time Lowen and Jeremy meet (yet another wildly contrived scenario including a car accident and a woman trusting a strange man to hang out in a bathroom with her while she changes her shirt) Jeremy acts like he has no idea who she is. But later says he was the one who suggested she co-author Verity’s novels because Lowen’s writing was so special to him. So he lied? Are we sure there wasn’t something more sinister going on with Jeremy? I just kept waiting for it, but it never happened.No way Verity “fakes” her condition. Doctors, nurses, specialists, all the scans and tests, and no one could tell she was just lying really still?! Excuse me.  That ending is so contrived! Was I supposed to be shocked? Or upset? Because it just made me roll my eyes. I honestly feel like Colleen Hoover wrote this with the mindset that she’ll be taken more seriously as a writer the darker and more graphic her novels become. And this was the darkest and most gruesome yet. But she’s at her best when her plots are solid and don’t rely heavily on contrived “twists” and explanations and nonsensical behavior by characters. So yeah…she pushed this novel to its absolute limits, content-wise. But dropped her plotting and story telling along the way. 1 star Look for the creepiness of an unassuming character 😵This was so damn good!I am so glad this is the first book by the author that I chose to read.What I really loved about the plot were the really flawed characters and how creepy they were except for the two MCs.Each of the character was so flawed that it would be impossible to enjoy this book without such characters. And like in most thrillers, they make horrible decisions. And that made this book rather more enjoyable for me!The plot is so twisted; no one will ever know what would come in the next page or para!Whatever trobe you assume would be proved wrong when you finished up reading this book - this is the ultimate beauty of this book!The story is based on the lookout for a new author for the continuation of a very popular book series when in fact the original author, Verity Crawford, is lying in a vegetative state after an accident.Verity's life is not that simple as anyone imagines.As the new author, Lowen Ashleigh, comes in the scene, she discovers an autobiography by Verity which brought up a huge twist in the story.The lines written there revealed so many harsh truths about the marriage between Verity and her husband, Jeremy; as well as about the dead of their children.With their son, Crew, left and is believed to be in danger; and that there were many disturbing clues as to the faking of being in a vegetative state by Verity herself, Lowen is left caught in between all this mess.She falls for Jeremy hard and fast.Jeremy does the same as well which I found totally awkward but who the hell cares (For me, CoHo's books are notorious for the worst kinds of romances)Everything seems to worked out fine but it is the beginning of twist in the story.She discovers one more proof in the room of Verity before moving out of the house with Jeremy. Ah, for the love of twists, the whole book seems to be full of twists!I found Verity and Crew to be really creepy.This one was more like a horror read for me.This was a really good book; fast paced and thrilling all because of the creepiness now and then.  This gritty edge-of-your-seat thriller was worth every chill bump it aroused. I connected with the introverted main character, author Lowen Ashleigh, from the outset; the struggling writer's mischievous sense of humor created a perfect bite of sweet and sour. At times, the dark subject matter leaned toward gruesome, but this was to be expected within this genre. The baddies are rotten to the bone, and the storyline packs some serious heat. There is a strong element of romance, but this is by no means a cotton candy tale all wrapped up with a pretty bow. Was I highly entertained? Absolutely!! This book is the equivalent of a fast ride in a burning car hurtling down the side of a mountain.Verity is my first read by author Colleen Hoover; it certainly won’t be my last. Her writing style is direct, with a cinematic quality that I appreciated. If wicked is what you are looking for, dive in, while the bodies are still warm!  What (and I cannot stress this enough) the fuck. I flew through this book in one sitting, it was that good! Verity by Colleen Hoover is a 2018 publication. Unlike so many rabid fans of this author, I have not read, to my knowledge, a single book by Colleen Hoover. (Although I did find one of her books languishing on my Kindle recently) I see so many rave reviews for her novels, and some of them seem like books I would probably like, but for some reason I continue to associate her with YA books, which is not my favorite genre. But, when I saw this book on Kindle Unlimited and read the synopsis, I was instantly intrigued. If the book had been written by anyone else, I probably would have given it a pass, while congratulating myself on using my iron willpower to stick to my strict- no exceptions- psychological thriller diet. But, because I knew this book was a departure for this wildly popular writer, my curiosity won out. So much for my iron willpower...The setup is interesting- Author, Lowen Ashleigh’s financial status is as dismal as her book sales. Her mother recently died after a lengthy illness and she’s fending off eviction notifications, when out of the blue she is given the incredible and lucrative opportunity of co- authoring a series with, or rather, for, the famous writer, Verity Crawford. Verity was in a horrible car crash and is no longer able to continue writing. Lowen doesn’t have to think too hard about accepting the job, especially when she sees the amount of money involved. Verity’s devoted husband, Jeremy, allows Lowen to live in their home while she goes through Verity’s notes on the series and acclimates herself with the tasks she’s been hired to perform. But when she stumbles across a Verity’s autobiography amongst her other work materials. Lowen rationalizes the need to read the manuscript, convincing herself it will help her better understand Verity. What she learns about the esteemed author will blow your mind!! Meanwhile, as Lowen immerses herself deeper and deeper into Verity’s memoir, a bond develops between Jeremy and Lowen. The attraction deepens as they spend more time together, until it becomes palpable and undeniable. However, Lowen has begun to irrationally fear Verity.Are her fears overwrought? Is her imagination playing tricks on her?  For long time fans of this author, this book could be a little like culture shock. But, for the seasoned readers of psychological thrillers, all this twisty darkness, and diabolical characterizations are par for the course. However, I must say that this one is more than just a departure for this author, it is a bit of a departure for the standard psychological thriller, as well. Many of you may not remember the surge in popularity of psychological thrillers back in the nineties, not just in books, but in movies, as well. Back then, it was almost a requirement for a PT to be as sexually steamy, as it was edgy and suspenseful. I thought this book had that same feel, as it contained a lot more sexually explicit content than most standard PT’s written today. It should also be noted that many people have shelved this book in the romance category. However, in my opinion, this is not a romance, nor does it fall into the romantic suspense category, although there is a romantic element, if you wish to view it as such. It’s a pure psychological thriller, through and through. That’s just my take on it. As far as PT’s go, this one is unique, very atmospheric and creepy, and even I, Miss jaded and burned out on PT’s, nearly jumped out of my skin on one occasion. The author thankfully keeps the story on an even keel, with no wild, unnecessary, or over the top twists. In fact, the twists are very well timed, and the suspense builds at a steady and effective pace.  Although the story is far from predictable, I did figure some things out in advance, and many seasoned PT readers will probably have a good inkling where everything is headed, as well. It’s an unavoidable ‘occupational hazard’ I think. Still, the final turn of the screw was very well done, and the book ended on a perfect note. I loved it! I am impressed by Ms. Hoover’s courage to step outside her comfort zone, taking a risk by writing outside of her usual genre. That she pulled this off, shouldn’t really be a surprise, though. Reading her bio, I see that she is a number one New York Times bestselling author. Ms. Hoover is a seasoned, professional writer and has been for some time. Let’s give her a little credit here. I hope her success with this book will widen her reading audience and I hope she will try her hand at this genre again someday. Meanwhile, I think it’s about time I checked out some of her romance and contemporary fiction novels.4 stars  that ending:that plot:so,  3.85 Stars* (rounded up)Well Darn It! This novel didn’t quite live up to the Hype. “Verity” is a novel that I’ve seen crazy review after crazy review for and after a while, the hype got to both me and my book buddy, such that we decided to make it our New Year’s read. Admittedly, this book is, in fact, Whack (and entertaining at that) - however, I expected the ending to blow me away but after all the insane reviews I read, it was just kind of like “wah wah.” “Verity” is my first novel by Colleen Hoover - it was eye-opening! Let’s chat about how salacious it is. Like wowza!  If that’s your thang, you’re definitely going to want to take a bite out of this one. It’s also a super fast read... Maybe it’s the salaciousness… but even I couldn’t tear my eyes away (true dat!, lol). When Lowen Ashleigh is hired to co-author the remaining books in a series for “Verity” Crawford who was in a debilitating accident, she has no idea what she has gotten herself into. Being offered a huge sum of money, she just can’t turn it down. Staying in Verity’s home with Jeremy, Verity’s husband and their son Crew so that she can pour through Verity’s library, Lowen discovers way more than she ever bargained for. “Verity” is weird, wild and yes, quite wicked. It is also disturbing at times, I will not lie, that said, it is highly entertaining.  Had there not been so much hype built up around this novel, I think I would have enjoyed it more, such is life I suppose. I think most readers will LOVE this thus I think you should all dive in, the sooner, the better. Thank you so much to Kaceey for this book! Thank you also for reading this one with me - it was one wild ride! Published on Goodreads on 12.31.18.  Um... WOW? I LOVED this book so much. I was hooked the entire time. The plot was wild and so twisted. Huge 5 stars from me!! What did I just read? 😲My brain is still trying to process this book.I just can't believe it. Nope. Trigger warning : child abuse, murder, the loss of a loved one, infidelity, a miscarriage attempt, and just lots of other disturbing stuff that happens in this book so be extremely careful while reading the bookOh, Colleen Hoover, what have you done, maybe something not that bad, not that good but mostly more bad than good. But, I’m in minority when it comes to this book, the majority of the people who read this book loved it and good for them, in the wake of many mediocre thrillers, it’s a great still to find a book from the genre to enjoy. But for me, this book really didn’t work out and it was for many different reasons:
  Reason 1
 : as someone who reads a lot of thrillers and mysteries, I mean really a lot, this book is simply predictable, I’ve seen this story or variations of it many times before and even the twist of the final chapter it’s just meh, I predicted it in the first half of the book and I was sure it was going to be that way and let me tell you why :
  Reason 2
 : the book reveals one of its biggest clues early on and from there it’s impossible not to put it all together and get a hang of what’s really happening and the story itself doesn’t leave any room for another possibility to wedge itself in your mind. Other thrillers are so cleverly written and intricate, they drive you crazy with the many theories that could fit the story without it being bloated or nonsensical, this book on the other hand, is way to basic and simplistic mystery wise to work in that manner. 
  Reason 3
 : It felt like the author was trying too much to make us forget that she’s a romance author. This book is messed up; it’s dark, disturbing and just ugly most of the times and I don’t mind authors getting out of their comfort zones and trying something new and daring, I actually appreciate the bravery that comes with getting out of your comfort zone but it has to work in a seamless way, it has to feel organic, not fake, forced and manufactured. I just felt like the dark stuff was just there for the shock value and I didn’t appreciate it, especially when it has to do with child abuse. It left a bad taste in my mouth and I just wanted to forget all about it. The book was disturbing for the sake of being disturbing
  Reason 4
 : The plot was lacking cause what really happens in the book with the exception of those final chapters; the book alternated between scenes of abuse, scenes of sexual nature and just people doing routine stuff. Yes, there were moments of genuine creepiness that scared me a little bit but those were far and in between and not enough to keep me for getting bored out of my life
  Reason 5
 : The characters aren’t that well-written. each one of them is defined by one or two things; verity by her abuse and her health situation, Jeremy by how much desired he is and Lowen by how much she desire Jeremy. It’s only at the end, that we start to doubt another side of the characters which bring them complexity and depths but by then it’s too little too late for me. Not to mention that they have no redeeming qualities whatsoever. 
  Reason 6
 : The ending was like a middle finger to the whole story; it was like, look at me, I’m so dark and disturbing but really I’m not. I felt like the ending betrayed the tone of the story and it actually made me dislike the book even more.
  Reason 7
 : Child abuse and how it was used as a plot device to motivate the characters, I really hate when authors do that, take a sensitive and traumatizing topic and use it either to just label their books as dark or either to move the story forward. In conclusion, I really wanted to love this book but it didn’t work out for me and that’s okay. But After the disappointing Never Never trilogy and this book too, I think I’m going to stick to Colleen Hoover as a romance author because out of romance, her books doesn’t impress me at all.
  *************************************
#Winter Biannual Bibliothon Day 6, Book 5  Here's a book with some bite! It also gives new meaning to the term "if at first, you don't succeed, try, try again."Colleen Hoover has created yet another highly readable, captivating, and fast read that is quite different from her other books.Lowen Ashleigh is a struggling author who is dealing with the recent loss of her mother and the loss of a home when a writing job comes at just the right moment! Bestselling author, Verity Crawford, injured in an accident is not able to complete her successful series. Her husband, Jeremy Crawford has hired Lowen to complete his wife's series. Like Lowen, Jeremy is no stranger to loss. His twin daughters have both died tragically and his wife, Verity, has been in a terrible accident.When Lowen arrives at their home and begins to go through Verity's paperwork and notes, she discovers Verity's unfinished autobiography. Lowen can't stop reading, completely engrossed with Verity's admissions, secrets, and revelations. She wants to keep the journal a secret, but can she keep it to herself for long?There is a creepiness to this book as well as a sense of foreboding and dread. just as Lowen could not put down Verity's autobiography, I could not put this book down! Wanting to know what was going on, I dove into the pages and the lives of the characters. As the story progresses the suspense builds, I just knew something was going to happen! I go long stretches between reading Hoover's book and then wonder why as I have enjoyed all the ones I have read. As I mentioned, this is a little off the beaten path for her and this one also has more graphic sex scenes. Some won't mind, some will. But what will most think of the ending? Yes, that ending. I honestly did not see THAT coming. I thought she did a great job of pulling the wool over my eyes. Will the wool be pulled over yours as well? My only complaint - the ending felt abrupt. Interesting, yes.... but abrupt. Otherwise, this was quite the page-turner for me and I'm glad she tried something new. This one is darker, edgier, and more intense than her other books.  I haven't had a visceral reaction like this to a book in years. This was a very different style for Colleen Hoover and I devoured it last night (unplanned. I was exhausted and only planned on reading a chapter or two.) It was hard to read at times and I did not see the ending coming, which is rare for me. But, in typical Hoover style, she gives you a security blanket at the end, to help mend your heart. If you read thrillers, you should read this one.If you don't read thrillers, suck it up and read this one.If you're itching for an MM romance about a truck driver named Keath and a mailman named Raul, you should definitely read this book.If you blame Dina Silver for everything wrong in your life, we should talk.  the queen of butterflies, rainbow heartbeats and chocolately warm book hugs is writing a psychological thriller  ...
  you don't even understand how ready i am for this
...  C.R.A.Z.Y. To! The! Hilt!CoHo has one vivid imagination, and I for one, am glad she shared this ‘way out there’ creative plot line with the rest of us.Let me tell you there were so many “What the what?” moments, I had to keep reminding myself I wasn’t reading a Stephen King or Greer Hendricks novel. I really wouldn’t put this in the romance category, albeit plenty of sex scenes are a plenty. It is totally more af a psychological thriller. Now you might be saying to yourself, ‘But this is Colleen Hoover and she writes romance novels.’ I know, right?!? Well, she ventured completely out of her box this go round!I think this would make a great buddy read. So much to digest, dissect and discuss. So ‘much’ still swirling in my head ;)I am really glad I refrained from reading anyone else’s review, despite the temptation. I know I continue to sound like a broken record in one review after the other, but good gracious sakes, go in blind, prepare to be gob-smacked and enjoy the outlandish ride!  Once again I glossed over the word “romantic” when I chose this thriller. Bad move on my part. I really don’t like romance novels and this one had lots of gratuitous sex scenes that I really didn’t need to listen to. (Thank God Audible allows you to adjust the speed of the narration.) But I allowed myself to be swayed by all those five star reviews. Even as I continued to dislike this book, I kept thinking there had to be a reason for all those five star reviews. You know how sometimes, a book will remind you of another for some vague reason? In the beginning, this book kept giving me a sort of Jane Eyre vibe. I can’t give you a solid reason. It’s not a takeoff by any stretch. I guess it’s the poor, naive young woman in a house with the sexy rich husband while the incapacitated wife is upstairs. Verity is a successful writer whose trademark is to write from the villain’s point of view. When she is injured in a car accident, Lowen is brought in to finish the final three books in her series. She discovers a draft of Verity’s unknown autobiography. It doesn’t paint Verity in a flattering light. The characters are two dimensional and not at all believable. And the ending? I found it contrived and gimmicky. So, I’m definitely the outlier on this book. But this one failed me big time. The audio book uses two narrators, one for Lowen and one for Verity. They both do decent jobs.   what the actual fuck Yo! King Kong Ain’t Got Nothing on This Book! Lol!! This book came out of nowhere! I feel like it should have came with a warning sign or something! Read At Your Own Cost! Let me calm down and get back to this review! The book was Provocative, Juicy, Scary, and Mysterious! I almost read this whole book last night. I just could not stop reading it! It had so many twists and turns. I could not figure out what was going to happen next. The characters were all a little crazy in my Humble opinion. Which really means I thought they were Freaking Awesome! Plus, the ending made me SPEECHLESS! My mouth is still open while writing this review! Do I really need to say it? Read this book ASAP! This is some 911 stuff. Lol! 🥇🥇🥇🥇🥇  This was so freaking good. Also, in my opinion this is a straight up psychological thriller, I wouldn't really call this a romantic thriller. (And I loved that about it). This book was unlike anything Colleen Hoover has ever written - it was dark, it was gritty and it was disturbing as fuck in the best way. I couldn't look away, I read this entire book in one sitting, staying up till 2am to finish it. It's best going into this book knowing absolutely nothing like I did, but if you want an idea of what it's about, read further. This story follows a writer named Lowen who gets asked to complete Verity Crawford's final 3 books in her series after Verity is in a really bad car accident. Lowen decides to take on the challenge of writing Verity's last three books and she moves into Verity's house where her husband Jeremy lives and nurses care for Verity day in and day out. The book starts off with an incredibly graphic car accident scene and from there it sets the mood for an incredibly eerie story. This book is so interesting and so well-written, I literally couldn't put it down. It reminds me of Tarryn Fisher's writing, in a good way. This is my second favorite book ever from Colleen Hoover (after It Ends With Us). I thought Verity's character was so so so fascinating. I loved reading from Lowen's POV as she discovers all the mysteries behind Jeremy and Verity's marriage and what happened with their children. There were some scenes in this book that were so creepy I actually got chills and was genuinely kind of freaked out. Like all the scenes where Lowen felt like Verity was watching her and the scene where Verity was standing at the top of the stairs staring at them like aslkjdlakjsd. I got chills. I love the ambiguous ending. That ending fucking slayed my life and is part of the reason this will be on my best of 2018 list. I love how Verity wrote the letter explaining that the manuscript she wrote was made up because she was trying to get into the mind set of a villain, and none of that actually happened and she was actually afraid of Jeremy which is why she pretended to be in a coma for so long. BUT I love the fact that we'll never really know if that's true or not because she is an amazing writer or we'll never know for sure if the letter is real or if the manuscript is real - because she is extremely manipulative and tries to bend the truth. I think Colleen Hoover should write more psychological thrillers like this one because this shit was amazing and unlike anything I've ever read before.  I mean if you like sex scenes dryer than a biology text book sure go off I guess [4.5🌟]Well, fuck me, I’ve been deceived. Better yet, I HAVE BEEN CATFISHED! I don't believe anything of what I've just read.Nope.---------------------Was suggested this audiobook by this life saver! I was looking for an audiobook (since I’d like to become an addict to them) and I was planning on reading this book for #Spookathon. It all just came together too perfectly.  What is an acceptable truth?My truth, your truth, and everything in between......Colleen Hoover hits the ground running in Verity with the sudden bolt of a gruesome accident. Lowe Ashleigh, a mediocre writer treading water in the publishing world, is on her way to a meeting with her editor. She witnesses the aftermath of a pedestrian on the wrong side of the speeding vehicle equation. A handsome stranger on the street comes to her rescue. This intersection of lives will be the pivotal point of what is to follow.Lowe's meeting turns out to be like a concrete slab balancing on her lap. She's been given the opportunity to ghost write for a very successful writer who has been recuperating at home and is unable to complete her books under contract. Uncertainty gnaws at Lowe, but from a financial standpoint, Lowe is desperate after being evicted from her apartment. Opportunity doesn't rap lightly. Lowe signs on the dotted line.Such an undertaking involves moving into the home of the popular writer, Verity Crawford, in order to go over her notes and files. Lowe meets Verity's husband, Jeremy, who gives Lowe every access into Verity's materials. Lowe finds a file that perhaps she should have set aside. As readers, we are allowed a jaw-dropping chapter here and there from said file. Yama Hama.....It's Fright Night!Hoover hands off the wrenching reality of knowing what you know alongside the sharp-edged anguish of either swallowing it down or spitting it out. We experience Lowe's shock as more and more is revealed about the renowned Verity. It's a huge understatement to say that not all is as it seems here.Prepare yourself for plenty of crossing-the-line brutal details in this one. T'ain't for the tender of heart. Colleen Hoover reveals in her Acknowledgements at the end of the book that she wished to venture into a genre outside of her usual neighborhood. Believe me, there must be some raggedy creatures swinging from the rafters inside her mind. That gasping sound will be your own......  reading vlog: https://youtu.be/m8e8qYgpG30My Patron's did me RIGHT! What a W I L D ride. Absolutely bonkers from page one.The first sentence had me hooked and didn't let me go even after the last page.I was gasping. I was screaming. I was genuinely freaked out by parts of this book. If anyone's wondering, I'm #teammanuscript and I won't hear any counter arguments at this time.  WOW...Is all I can say. I loved this book so much. This is not a romance like it is said to be, but it is a great Dark Suspense Mystery. I enjoyed the character development in this book, and I really loved the twists and turns in this book. I love the characters in this book. Never going to get the brain cells back I lost reading this, am I? What the fuck did I just read  
  
TITLE: VerityAUTHOR: Colleen HooverGENRE: Romantic ThrillerPUBLICATION: Get your one click on!! https://amzn.to/2PqJqqD VERITY:  Is a full-length standalone romantic thriller from #1 New York Times bestselling author Colleen Hoover. MY REVIEW:  can also be found on my blog:  
   ➽ KITTY KATS CRAZY ABOUT BOOKS
 This is so completely left field from the types of books Colleen Hoover typically writes, the very first chapter had me sitting up straight devouring her words, loving this different side to her she’s set loose. OMGODDDD!! I don’t even know what to say or where to really begin, this for me was like a slow burn, like a creeper it snuck up on me and I found myself devouring this, the feels came at me full force like an electric shock, shocking my body back to life, the outside world ceased to exist. Going into this I didn’t know what to expect, didn’t look at reviews, and honestly I barely glanced at the blurb, but one constant nagging in the background was my need to sign up for this, my need to read this knew no bounds, I needed to get my hands on this and I’m so glad I did..This is so left field to what this author normally releases and personally I think she nailed it!! I can’t wait to see what she brings us next!!This book won't appeal to a lot of you if your hard limit is cheating. But if you can overlook that aspect then you'll love this one as much as I did..Such a unique f#cked up story, this had my heart racing more times than I can count, I couldn't put it down, I didn't want to put it down. 
  
And then I reached the ending and I was sitting there flabbergasted, like literally no words described what I was feeling, I couldn't wrap my head around it, was it all lies? Or a coverup? Such a Profound train crash type of read, A mindf#ckery of epic proportions, twists and turns I never saw coming but loved all the whiplash they gave me.Highly recommend!!
  

  

  
   
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
   Let me confess right here and now I’ve been a Colleen Hoover virgin. Yes I have heard of this author, yes I own her first series, but, I have never taken the plunge to read the series I own. Why not? I really haven’t a clue, maybe because I thought the romance side was “lovey dovey” and I’m into thrillers.Why have I explained all that!Well, after this book it’s definitely going to change. Yes I’m aware that she took a huge dive writing this and producing and publishing it on her own, but come on, her publishers are going to be shocked and amazed at the sheer talent of this lady.This book was a huge surprise to me. I just went in blind expecting nothing and got EVERYTHING.Everything a book of this genre should be.TensionAnxietyThe “can’t put this book down” and the “I stayed up to finish this”. Flicking the pages so fast your fingers get sore.Splashing your face with cold water because your body says “go to sleep” and you reply “ just one more chapter”.The three main characters in this plot were expertly crafted and life was breathed into them quickly that they soon stood tall in this readers mind on what role was whose.Jeremy, married to Verity.Then the third person in the wheel.I don’t want to give a run down of who is who and what is what.I went in blind not reading anyone’s review.Now that I’ve read it, I’ve read plenty of reviews. This isn’t hyped up.It’s a surely twisted tale that will hook you so much you won’t know where this maze will end.The last chapter made my jaw drop.I’m hoping and wishing that we see more of the “dark cringeworthy “ mind of Colleen Hoover.I feel there’s more inside her to creep me out yet again!  An Ode To Colleen HooverHoover is in a category all her own when it comes to modern romance with a twist. You see, in case you've never indulged in a Hoover novel, she always has a "hook" (if you're a musician or music lover you'll know exactly what I mean). At some point in most of her novels you will inevitably sit up and go "wooooahhh what in the actual fuck just happened?".She can do it with just one sentence, like with the book Hopeless. The scene where Holder reveals the truth to Sky. I mean, idk about you, but I sat up in the bed and audibly gasped. My point is that she doesn't put forth simple fluffy romances. There's often something more just under the surface that tickles at your subconscious until Hoover is ready to spring it on you, pulling the carpet out from under your feet, making you question everything you just read. Like a Sixth Sense moment, you know what I mean? Over the years I've watched reviewers, and even fellow authors (always female) (shame on you), throw shade at Colleen for every reason under the sun. Most especially about the dynamics she creates between the men and women in some of her stories. Her critics say that the men are creepy, sexist and don't take no for an answer, her female characters are pathetic and weak. You know what I say to that? SO FUCKING WHAT?It's not Colleen's responsibility to only write politically correct scenarios.It's not Colleen's responsibly to coddle you and your sensibilities. It's not Colleen's responsibility to create what YOU feel are likeable characters.So what if you feel that all of her female characters are portrayed as weak. So what if you think all of her male characters are creepy.So. The. Fuck. What.And before some fuckwit comments about it...It's not Colleen's responsibility to provide role models for young men and women to emulate.It's not her responsibility to censure herself and her craft because it may in some way negatively influence a reader. It's not her responsibility to teach young women what they should and should not tolerate from a man. I've never seen any other author take the kind of flack that is thrown in Colleen's direction in an attempt to diminish her loyal following. All I can say to Colleen is that she must be doing something right. She should stop kowtowing to these armchair feminists behind their computer screens. She writes FICTION for ADULTS and if they can't sort out the difference between that and the real world then to hell with them.____________________________fic·tion/ˈfikSH(ə)n/nounliterature in the form of prose, especially short stories and novels, that describes imaginary events and people.invention or fabrication as opposed to fact.synonyms:fabrication,&nbsp;invention,&nbsp;lies,&nbsp;fib,&nbsp;untruth,&nbsp;falsehood,&nbsp;fantasy,&nbsp;nonsense____________________________In case anybody is still reading this .... I very much enjoyed Colleen's first foray into the romantic thriller genre. The story was gripping to the point that I read the entire book in one sitting that ended at 6:40 a.m. *yaaaaawwwwnn*This book would have easily been a 5 star for me if not for the "I saw it coming" lackluster ending. I feel like the story could have gone deeper and darker than it did. Hoover is just getting her feet wet with this one and I hope she's ready to dive off headfirst into the deep end of a shallow pool with her next endeavor.  
“Find what you love and let it kill you.”  

“Is there a word for what I’m doing?”“Probably. What are you referring to?”“This,” he says quietly. “Falling for a woman when I shouldn’t.”  

"It’s clear that Verity was a master at manipulating the truth. The only question that remains is: Which truth was she manipulating?"  
  Hooked immediately!!!! Thank you, Jayme!!!!Lowen and Jeremy -complete strangers -are alone together in a public - cafe men’s bathroom.They have just witnessed a man die on a crowded street in Manhattan. People were waiting for the crosswalk light to change. The man was looking at his phone when he stepped off the curb. The crack of his skull hits the ground as a truck hits him. Lowen was close enough to get splattered blood on her white blouse. The stranger, Jeremy, also near by, kindly guided her into the coffee shop bathroom to help her clean up. Lowen became quite vulnerable the minute she took her blouse off to clean it - ( ends up tossing it in the trash), standing in front of the sink with her unattractive bra. Jeremy removes his shirt - gives it to Lowen. Literally, he gives her the shirt off his back. He has a white t-shirt underneath. Lowen is aware of the vulnerable connection. Jeremy says:“I can’t tell if you’re calm or in a state of shock.” ( given they just witnessed a man’s death by a truck driver).“I’m not in shock, Lowen says,....but I don’t know that I’m calm either. I’m not sure, I admit. Are you okay?”“I’m fine, he says. I’ve seen worse, unfortunately”. Five months earlier, Jeremy pulled his eight year old daughter’s body out of a lake. A week ago, Lowen’s mother had died. She died of cancer. Where on earth does this conversation go from here? Lowen and Jeremy were only together by pure - ‘tragic’ - accident. Their conversation got heavy fast for complete strangers. Lowen wants to thank Jeremy for his help and be on her way.... but she is drawn to his altruism-a rarity these days. Then she notices a wedding ring. Oh well! They say goodbye.Lowen has a meeting in 15 minutes with Corey, her publisher and the editor from Pantem Press. The meeting will take place on the 14 the floor. Turns out Jeremy is in the same elevator, with a new clean shirt on...( fast change as he had a hotel room near by), .... also headed to a meeting on the 14th floor. Job opportunity arises. Jeremy’s wife, *Verity*, A bestseller series author... won’t be able to finish the remaining three novels in her series. Lowen is offered the job of finishing Verity’s series. Three novels to write. The hiring process made me laugh (financial benefits galore),....Lowen Ashleigh, takes the job with a pen name, *Laura Lane*. She can remain anonymous...which was vitality important to her. Lowen/ Laura moves into Jeremy’s house. She is there to research and study Verity’s books and notes. Jeremy has a five year old son: Crew.Chastin and Harper, twins daughters, both died from separate accidents. Chastin from anaphylaxis...( peanut allergy)...It was only weeks later, that Harper died in the lake behind their house.Both twin girls - dead! The suspense keeping building... We are turning those pages. Verity is in bed...pretty much incapacitated from ‘her’ accident (car crash)...confined mostly to one room - but her presence looms in almost every room of the house. We wonder about her car accident. Human error? Or intentional? Things aren’t right in the house. The house is filled with “chronics”. So many devastating tragedies!!! Yet Jeremy is warm, giving, and tender. Seems like the nicest guy in the world. So... what gives? But....with all those tragedies- and strange things happening inside that house... things are just creepy. Eerie is as eerie is!!! Two nurses take care of Verity full time: The Monday through Friday nurse, and the weekend relief nurse.Even they seem suspicious. As Lowen begins her research - reading the novels in the series that Verity wrote, she finds an autobiography- not part of the series... but with much insight into Verity, herself. She reads disturbing information about her.At the same time - Lowen is falling for Jeremy. has developed a crush on a man who is devoted to his ailing wife. Jeremy has even more baggage than Lowen. “Now that’s karma”. I enjoyed this fast pace psychological thriller.However, the ending was definitely rushed - and a mediocre ending compared to the rest of the novel. I didn’t mind the ending per say, ( even predicted some type of similar ending)... but the build-up ‘care’ - developing the ending felt anemic. Overall: Fun- thriller- rush!!! 4 strong stars!   I...I didn’t realize there was a book that could fuck me up more than Gone Girl...but I was wrong. I was so, SO wrong.This thing is dark, twisted, disturbing, unsettling, and utterly mind-blowing.It was like watching an episode of Black Mirror (minus the futuristic technology fuckery). I finished it 20 minutes ago and I’m still sitting here just staring at the wall.  Well done, Colleen Hoover. You’ve ruined me. 👏🏻💯  *4 Stars*Yesss! Verity is a solid psychological thriller and a compulsive reader’s GOLD. Seriously, I flew straight through this deliciously creepy read! It’s been a while since I’ve read a book where the creep-factor was so extreme that I had to watch something happy afterwards just to be able to fall asleep. And yet it felt understated in its delivery, scaring the life out of me with a subtle hand—a sneaky little spook, hitting me while my guard was low. If it’s Hoover’s signature steam you desire most, you will not be disappointed because she amply delivers on that front, as well. But, what stands out for me is the expert storytelling—the fluid, suspenseful, provocative, WTF-inducing storytelling that kept me on on my toes and in a steady state of unease. (Fun)The only thing missing for me was some character depth. I don’t want or need likable characters, nor do I anticipate forming a bond with the twisted folk in thrillers, BUT, a bit more dimension would have instilled some of the life I felt was lacking in these characters. The intro was stellar, but I can’t help feeling it insinuated a bit more importance than it ultimately delivered, which is more an observation than a complaint. I won’t discuss the ending much here, other than to say it’s a GOODIE and it kinda-sorta-maybe leaves you guessing, which is the funnest kind of fun, in my book(s). Who wouldn’t be compelled to swap theories with fellow readers after a killer ending like that? I believe this was CoHo’s first dip into the thriller genre, and I can honestly say she nailed it. Fantastic read!  First page in and I knew I was going to have a hard time putting it down. I had absolutely no idea what that book was going to be like, I decided I wasn’t going to read anything about it, not even the resume. This was mindblowing ! So shocking and disturbing, its been a good while since a book has had that effect on me. There is not much I didnt like about the story, I couldnt care less with the romance/growing desire between Lowen and Jeremy but everything else was amazing. An breathtaking story within a story, if you love a good thriller, this one might not be for everyone but it definitely wont leave you without a reaction.   Believe the hype! This book is a must read! I am not sure how I had not heard about this book until a couple of days ago. How is that possible with all the buzz surrounding it? The reviews are off the charts and well deserved I must say. I did a buddy read with Brenda at Two Sisters Lost In a Coulee. This was a total unplanned buddy read and we flew through this together. Please check out what Brenda had to say @ twosisterslostinacoulee. We both loved it!So I was minding my own business and surfing around on Twitter and I saw Sue's review of Verity @ sue31didit. That was all it took I was sold. I had to have this book now. I dropped everything, downloaded it and started reading. Yes her review is that good, check it out. Wow the first chapter is so graphic, shocking and intense! I immediately texted Brenda at Two Sisters Lost In a Coulee and said please do a buddy read with me. Mind you it was about 11:30 pm. Well she dropped everything and here we are. WOW!!! What a way to kick of the new reading year!First I wondered what the heck is a Verity when I saw the title. Then I figured out Verity was going to be one of our main characters and she is something else. If you did not know, the definition of her name is "the quality or state of being truthful or honest." Hmm well that certainly is interesting. The whole book I was shocked, repulsed and quite frankly scared of her. She is an intimidating woman.I really feel I can't say much more than this because I don't want to give anything away. Just know, seriously drop what you are doing and read this book!! If anything I dare you to read the first chapter and then try to put this book down. It is so intense and unique it is going to drag you right in and you are going to want more!  4.5 en realidad.WOW. La verdad es que no tengo palabras para hablar de este libro. Ha sido TAN diferente a lo que CoHo nos tiene acostumbrados que estaba superenganchada y flipando con cada página que leía. Es un thriller romántico, podríamos llamarlo así perfectamente, donde los personajes te harán vivir situaciones muy creepys y raras, en muchos momentos me daba tan mal rollo, que tenía que parar de leer, sobretodo por las noches, os lo juro. Me ha parecido un libro muy adictivo, con unos personajes muy enrevesados, con muchos matices y misterios por resolver. La trama amorosa me ha gustado bastante, aunque debo decir que en algunos momentos la llegué a ver algo forzada. Porque seamos sinceros, la trama que de verdad importa en este libro es toda la de Verity y lo que sucedió en su vida. Dios mío, leer sus capítulos era lo mejor de este libro ya al vez lo más perturbador de esta vida. Y EL FINAL. ¿PODEMOS HABLAR DE ESE MALDITO FINAL? ES QUE YO SIGO EN SHOCK Y SIENTO QUE NO ME VOY A RECUPERAR DE ESTO EN MI VIDA. Es que es MUY FUERTE TODO. En fin, que os recomiendo muchísimo este libro de Colleen. Es totalmente diferente al resto de sus historias, pero aún así es igual de maravilloso. Debo decir también que es con el primer libro de la autora que no lloro... ya os digo que es muy diferente y su intención no era llegarte a la patata, sino que te diera todo un mal rollo que flipas.   I’M SHOOK! This is a MUST READ!!This book is 💯 undoubtedly worth the hype! Holy freaking crap! I couldn’t sleep after I finished this. It was that good/twisted! 😳Synopsis: Verity Crawford, an author, is unable to finish her contract due to an injury and, therefore, is in need of a co-author. Her husband, Jeremy, comes across Lowen Ashleigh as an option. Lowen, who’s beyond broke, needs the money and accepts. She’s invited to stay at the Crawford resistance to sift through years of notes. While doing so, she uncovers EXTREMELY unsettling information and the tides turns in the house. Is she co-authoring books for a villainous sociopath?!You guys, what unfolds FREAKED ME OUT! This is one of the most gripping novels I’ve read. 🤯 It’s deceptive, malicious, calculated, and HORRIFYING! It stirred up so many emotions inside of me because I went from being livid to hopeful to a nervous wreck. 😱I don’t want to give ANYTHING away. Soooo... The characters are strong. 💪🏼 The story isn’t drawn out. The plot is clever. The only reason I withdrew a half-star had to do with the incorporation of an aliment Lowen had. But other than that, DAMN IT WAS GOOD! 👏🏽AND THE ENDDDDD! WHAT THE ACTUAL EFFFFFF!!Those of you who’ve read this, am I right or am I right?! 🙌🏽  First few lines and you’ll be sucked in. 🤩I loved that there wasn’t much setup to this one. Character building and story setup are what make some books drag at the start so I appreciated that this book hopped right into the story without all the bells and whistles. Although it is the epitome of a domestic thriller, I thought it was relatively original and different from lots of thrillers I’ve read in the past. Sometimes they can be a dime a dozen so I’m always a bit of a skeptic to start. There were a few things I don’t want to mention because of spoilers that were never circled back to otherwise I would have given this a 4.5. Dropped scenarios are always a dealbreaker for me. Curiosity kills the cat! 🤷‍♀️I feel like a lot of people didn’t care for the ending, but I actually loved it! It wasn’t outrageously surprising, but that’s okay! I’m late to the Colleen Hoover party, but I’m excited to pick up more by her nonetheless!  What is the sign of a brilliant book? When you reach the end completely baffled and questioning everything. When you have to flip back and look for the clues you might have missed. When you want to shove the book in your friend's face and demand they ‘READ IT NOW’. This is also my definition of Verity.This book is about suspense novel writer, Lowen Ashleigh. She is asked by a man called Jeremy Crawford to finish off the last three books of a series written by his wife, famous author Verity Crawford, who is unable to write due to sever injuries sustained in a car accident. Lowen sets off to the Crawford home where she learns that Verity's injuries are worse than assumed. But she is there to collect as much of Verity's notes on her plan for the rest of the series. By chance she discovers Verity's self written autobiography, in it the most shocking truths. Lowen is torn between letting the past stay in the past and showing Jeremy who his wife really is. It is obvious from the beginning that though both Lowen and Verity are writers in the same genre, their personalities could not be more different. Lowen is quiet, not interested in fame and has a bit of social anxiety when it comes to meeting fans. The creepy atmosphere of the whole book was spot on. I am someone who is easily spooked when I watch movies or read. So yeah... I will admit I was gripping my blanket and shouting out loud ‘GET OUTTA THERE LOWEN!’.But I also think that Lowen's reactions were authentic for her character. I really liked Jeremy. I loved how much he loves his kids. He is just such a great dad. I appreciate that the romance wasn't rushed. I live for the slow burn and this DELIVERED.There were indeed some truly disturbing events contained in Verity's manuscript. It made me nauseous and wanting to cry and scream. I have seen some people say that some of the things revealed in the autobiography ‘wasn't that disturbing’.What I have to say to that is, it is disgusting to not be revolted by those events (which I shall not mention). Smh. Moving on to the ending.Just when I thought I had everything figured out. Colleen Hoover knocked me on my ass and I lay there dazed unsure of reality. WARNING: graphic sex scenes; violence (I don't want to give too much away but seriously very violent)______Pre-ReadRomance and thriller? I'm a goner already!! I haven't read a CoHo book in years, I'm excited to start this one!  Lowen Ashleigh is trying to hold her life together. She is an author, one that has never hit the big time. But her ship may have just come in when an unexpected job opportunity presents itself. Verity Crawford is a best-selling novelist who, after an accident finds herself unable to fulfill her contract to complete her next book. Verity's husband Jeremy seeks out Lowen to step in and complete the outline and book. Only Lowen gets more than she bargained for!Oh, how I wanted to be shocked! Have that mind-blowing experience that just seems so rare in thrillers these days! Everyone was raving about this latest book by Colleen Hoover. I’d never read her books before, but after reading a multitude of reviews it seemed certain this book “was it!’” I quickly jumped on in! And while I devoured it in just over a day and was glued to every page, in the end I was left asking that oh so familiar question.“Is that it?”Sadly yes... I didn’t get my “wow” moment. But...Did I enjoy the heck out of this book? Absolutely!!Am I a new fan of Colleen Hoover? Jumping on the Colleen Hoover fan wagon!Will I pick up her next thrilling novel? Without a doubt!A buddy read with Susanne!  
  5 Stars
Colleen Hoover delivers a wonderful romance disturbing thriller that will haunt you well after you finish. How did the author of Slammed have this type of storytelling within? Colleen proved she can write pretty much anything!! PS I would love for her to try her hand at a biker story with her spin whether dark or romance.  I’m sorry, what?? Review to come.-Every time I pick up one of CoHo's books, I have the feeling like I'm going to start a new adventure. La edición que comento es la original en inglés (ISBN 9781538724743), pero supongo, a tenor de las valoraciones generales, que la versión traducida al español no desmerece a la primigenia. Llevo ya varios días pensando en la puntuación que le voy a poner a esta novela. Una novela muy diferente a las que suele publicar esta autora. Su primer thriller, y creo que podría dedicarse a ello en exclusiva con éxito casi seguro.Le pondría 5 porque me ha tenido totalmente enganchado. De esas novelas que buscas el momento de continuar leyendo, aunque sea solo durante 5 minutos. O incluso 2. O mientras te cepillas los dientes. Quieres saber qué pasa. Y lo necesitas saber ya.Pero también le podría poner 4 por el tema del manuscrito o biografía. Al principio me lo he tragado. Pero, si te paras a pensar, creo que Verity no es muy fiable al mantener ese documento en secreto, sabiendo que era una bomba de relojería susceptible de ser descubierta por Jeremy o incluso por terceros. Creo que lo lógico hubiera sido tener una charla en serio con su marido para evitar posteriores sorpresas. O incluso haber confiado a su editor, que fue quién le dio la clave. Cualquier cosa menos lo que decide hacer con él. Y podría ponerle 3 porque, descubierto el pastel, el papel de Verity durante toda la novela se me antoja imposible de llevar adelante. Ni con una jartá de whisky me lo creo. Que no y que no. Pero si sumamos todos los pros y los contras, creo que seré justo si finalmente hago una media y la dejo en cuatro. Por el enganche al que me ha tenido sometido. Porque los protagonistas están muy bien perfilados, si descontamos esa escena final. Porque me ha encantado el manuscrito, y no me ha molestado esa sobredosis de sexo en absoluto. Es más, creo que está muy bien traído, dado lo que la firmante nos quiere dar a entender. Porque me lo he creído todo a pies juntillas (exceptuando el final, como queda dicho), imaginando finales alternativos que para nada se han cumplido. Y porque está bien escrito, cosa que ya imaginaba al ser un lector asiduo de la autora. En cuanto a lo del periodismo antagónico (antagonistic journaling) referido al manuscrito de marras, veo que hay un debate muy encendido en un hilo de este mismo sitio: https://www.goodreads.com/questions/1.... Hay dos bandos muy diferenciados, los dos con opiniones muy a tener en cuenta. Pero me mantendré al margen, aunque solo sea por no perder la cordura tras la lectura de esta magnífica novela, que recomiendo (y mucho), pero con precaución.  I can't even begin to explain how good this book was. I can only say that I started reading it last night and couldn't stop until 4:00am an only because I made myself stop. Yeah, it really was that good, and even now I have finished, and it's the next day I don't feel bad about it.So here are some tips before you start reading this book:1) Don't start reading this if you don't have time to finish it. 2) Just enjoy the read because you will never workout the plot. 3) If your not sure if you should read this book or another book read this one trust me. 📚📒📙📚📚📚📚📚📙📗📗📖📘📚4) close your mouth, and remember to breathe, their are so many jaw dropping moments in this book, and it's all consuming.One other thing, if your like me, and you like something big to happen in the very beginning you won't disappointed.Just read this book for the second time and have made up my mind about the ending, but I'm not going to say and ruin it, so you will just have to work it out for yourself.Happy reading📚📗📙📕📚📕📘📒📖📘📓📚😇  I read most of this last night over the course of a few hours, it's very readable, but I'm not sure why the writing kind of reminded me of fanficton or something on wattpad. I think it's mainly because of things like the transitions between chapters where Lowen would say something along the lines of  I need to read more of the autobiography  and then it would cut back to the autobiography. I'm not sure if what I'm trying to articulate even makes sense. I could also definitely have done without all the sex scenes. The romantic plot lines also gave it that wattpad/fanfiction vibe. It did hold my attention and I really didn't want to stop reading until finding out how it ended. I'm not sure how I feel about the ending either. I didn't find it surprising but I have been catching myself questioning it all day today so it definitely made an impression.  Verity is a Romantic thriller with a bite you won't see it coming to the end. Colleen Hoover does a really good job of captivating the reader. Although this was my first time reading a romance I couldn't stop reading wondering wtf is, Lowen up now. This book should be made into a movie!!!  I’m on BookTube! =)”My mother used to say that houses have a soul, and if that is true, the soul of Verity Crawford’s house is as dark as they come.”Trigger warnings: attempts to initiate a miscarriage, death of children, grief, murder of a child, attempted murder, attempted suicide, obsession over a loved one, murder, mistreatment of a person who is a nursing case, adultery, child abuse, descriptive car accidentOkay, I’ll admit it, this book was one hell of a wild ride and CoHo knows how to write thrillers. The sheer amount of trigger warnings I had to write down at the beginning of this review is definitely testimonial to that. I mean nowadays all thrillers seem to have a long list of trigger warnings so I guess CoHo delivered on that front. As for the trigger warnings themselves: Tread with caution. I get why almost no one bothers to write them in their review because they give away a lot of the plot and will spoil big parts of the story for you. I personally still would have liked to get them because for me some parts were really tough to read. And yes, I felt sick to my stomach when I read some of the scenes and had to put the book down for a little while before I picked it up again. I really don’t want to spoil anything so all I’ll say is: Parents might have a hard time to get through this and if you are a parent you might consider reading the trigger warnings as a heads-up. ”I haven’t read any of them, either. Not since her first book.”I spin and look at him. “Really?”“I didn’t like being inside her head.” This out of the way let’s get to the actual review and what the book is about: Well, the plot is easily told. Lowen a struggling writer gets the offer of a lifetime when she is called by her agent and asked to come to New York. After her mother’s death Lowen is in no good mental state, bills are piling and she’s afraid of losing the roof above her head. So all of this ultimately leads her to accept the deal of finishing Verity Crawford’s book series who has become a nursing case after a car crash. Lowen moves into Verity’s house in order to collect all the important notes and doesn’t just find Verity’s autobiography but also falls for Jeremy - Verity’s husband. Yep, and that’s basically all you know when you dive into the book. ”What you read will taste so bad at times, you’ll want to spit it out, but you’ll swallow these words and they will become part of you, part of your gut, and you will hurt because of them.”This book. Honestly, it was a mindf*ck! All the characters were extremely dislikeable and I just couldn’t find myself pulling for any of them? Well, okay I liked little Crew and the twins so I guess there’s that. But Verity, Lowen and Jeremy?! Phew. I don’t even know where to start. Everything we find out about Verity is horrible but truth be told I couldn’t even be team Lowen because the mere fact that she has the hots for Jeremy was revolting!? I mean okay, you do you, Lowen, but the way she lusted after him was so urgh. No words. Then again the same could be said about Verity and the thoughts we read in her autobiography. I think someone has to address the big elephant in the room: What exactly is so special about dear Jeremy that two women are so crazy about him?! Is he made of gold? I didn’t get the appeal of Jeremy 
  AT ALL
, I mean he seemed to be a handsome nice guy and a good father but nothing that would qualify this kind of obsession and to be honest I think he’s at least as f*cked up as the two women in his life. You gotta be if you’re with people like that, right?!”Maybe guilt is why I’m writing it all down. Because Jeremy needs to know the truth. Someday, somehow, he’ll find this. And then he’ll realize how much I fucking loved him.”The most interesting thing in this book was the eerie atmosphere though. From the moment Lowen enters he house you can feel that something is off and all the incidents are piling up while our nice MC works through Verity’s notes and her autobiography. Which was extremely nosy btw. Not that I probably wouldn’t have read the manuscript as well, but Lowen if you decide to be a nosy witch that has no sense for boundaries could you at least do it fast?! *lol* I mean if I would find such a disturbing autobiography I would have read it in a night! Lowen however takes her sweet time and tries to seduce Jeremy while reading his wife’s unsettling words. I personally would have left that house as fast as I could, but I’m obviously not Lowen so what do I know? Like I said, none of the characters was likeable, not even Verity’s nurse that seemed to have a permanent scowl on her face.Conclusion: This said I still paged through this book and wanted to know how it ends. I can’t say I enjoyed it because can you ever enjoy something that disgusts you so much? I think I’ll just settle for saying it was a page turner that made me think and feel, mostly emotions of revulsion but they are still valid feelings so we’ll just go with it. Terrifying, appalling, revolting, creepy, nauseating and bloodcurdling. All words that describe the unrelenting tale of “Verity” Crawford to a T. I guess it’s up to you if you decide to enter that world or not. I did my best to warn you though, didn’t I? ;-)________________________________This book was... quite something. CoHo knows how to write thrillers, I’ll give her that. To describe it with one word: Mindf*ck! And a big one at that. XDAlso there will be lots of trigger warnings in my review and I’ll mark them as spoilers so you can read them if you want to but you don’t have to. It’s up to you if you want to get a heads-up or not. I understand why so many people chose not to give them because they give away some plot points but honestly, sometimes you’d rather want to get into things knowingly. I’ll write my review about this book as carefully worded as I can. Promise! This said: Full RTC soon! _________________________________I’ve no idea what I’m getting myself into, all I know is that so many people said:1.)	“Verity” is amazing! (That I can believe.)2.)	It will screw with your mind. (This is going to be interesting.)3.)	Check the trigger warnings!!! (I would if anyone would ever write some for it! Like seriously. I tried real hard to find tw but uff everyone just says “check the trigger warnings” without giving any so yeah... I definitely will give them in my review once I’m done with this. XD)Fingers crossed I’ll survive reading this. I’m going in there totally blind so let’s hope my poor soul will get out of it unscathed. &gt;_&lt;I'm taking one for the team here so that other poor souls get good trigger warnings! *lol* Find me on:My BlogInstagram  There’s a whole tiktok series of me losing my sanity. Have fun (I didn’t) 
  
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI'm going to be 100% honest. I hated Colleen Hoover's early stuff. No matter which one I picked up, I never seemed to like it. Then she wrote TOO LATE, and I found myself sucked into her ability to write drama and dark characters. IT ENDS WITH US was even better, ratcheting up the drama and instilling it with a solid message. But VERITY is Hoover's best work yet, with a mystery that is comparable to GONE GIRL, and a writing style that seems to be channeled from the great Tarryn Fisher herself via osmosis.Lowen is a lower-tier writer struggling to make ends meet. Nobody is as shocked as she is when her agent manages to broker a deal to have her be the ghostwriter to the best-selling mystery author, Verity Crawford. Verity has just suffered an accident leaving her unable to write, and they need someone to provide for the fans who will be able to do her book justice.To Lowen's surprise, Verity's husband is the attractive man she has a run-in with on the street after witnessing a man get crushed by a vehicle. With such an auspicious first meeting, there's nowhere to go but up, right? Ha... ha... NOPE. When she moves into the family home to make sense of Verity's papers, she has to fight her growing attraction to Jeremy-- and her growing fear of his wife and everything she represents.Because even though his wife is catatonic and can't move, ghosts haunt the family home and the very books that Lowen herself is supposed to help write. And Lowen has found a memoir written by Verity suggesting that not everything is as it seems. In fact, Verity might just be a terrible person... and Lowen herself could be in grave danger.I couldn't put VERITY down. Not only does this capture all the struggles of being a writer SO WELL, it also features so many of my favorite tropes-- family secrets, a bit of an unreliable narrator (or not?? spoilers), writers as main characters, forbidden romance, kind of a Gothic haunted house vibe, murder, mystery, mayhem, and so much more. I freaking loved the ending. I loved the book even before the twist at the end but after the twist I was clapping my hands and saying BRILLIANT.Seriously, this book is so good and if you're not afraid to go where angels fear to tread, you'll love this.4 to 4.5 stars  Colleen Hoover thrillers are, while very bad, still better than her romance novels.I firmly believe that Colleen just read a bunch of bad thrillers one day and decided to combine everything she read to create the ULTIMATE bad thriller. This truly had every clichéd thriller trope imaginable: a mother who hates her children and tries to kill them, a mother who believes one of her children killed the other, a person pretending to be in a vegetative state and a completely nonsensical plot-twist that’s just there to serve a „GOTCHA BET YOU DIDN’T SEE THAT COMING“ moment. And none of these tropes were even done particularly well or in a new and exciting way. Also, when will authors realize that having a completely out of left field plot-twist isn’t exactly a good thing? This one was especially dumb. I knew something completely ridiculous was coming so I just spent the last 30 pages laughing and I still can’t stop one hour later because it’s just SO STUPID.There was also so much unnecessary sex but what can you expect from something that’s calling itself a „romantic thriller“. Whatever the fuck that’s supposed to be. The two words together make me want to throw up. Please never write another one, Colleen.I’m going to give her this though:It was kinda entertaining.Netflix has this TV show where they bring together a bunch of „hot“ people and tell them they can’t fuck or else they won’t win the prize money and all of them immediately start hyperventilating as if they would die if they can’t have sex for one week. It’s ridiculous and I have watched an entire season because it’s so entertaining and it’s exactly what reading this books feels like: it’s so goddamn stupid but it’s also very funny and I just couldn’t put it down.Still, me facepalming and crying tears of laughter for two hours straight doesn’t make this a good book. It remains 324 pages of pure bullshit. 1 star.  From the first sentence I was hooked. This book is so dark, wicked and shockingly disturbing. I don’t want to say too much as I don’t want to spoil it, this book isn’t your usual psychological Thriller, there are some scenes in the book I had to read 2 or 3 times because I couldn’t believe that is what was written on the page, its chilling and disturbing in a delicious way.Our protagonist Lowen is an unknown writer in debt, she is offered a dream job ghost writing for international bestselling author Verity Crawford. Verity was in a car accident and is unable to finish the last 3 books in her bestselling series. The Crawford family have been through tragedy after tragedy after loosing their twin daughters in two separate accidents and now the realization Verity intentionally drove her car into a tree. Jeremy (Verity's husband) hires Lowen to finish the last books in the series.When Lowen accepts, Jeremy invites her to stay at the house with him and his young son. Lowen will be able to sort through Verity’s office for outlines and notes for her final books. As she is sorting through the papers Lowen finds an unpublished autobiography written by Verity. Her inquisitive nature takes over and she starts reading, she learns Verity’s dark secrets that send chills down her spine, but she can’t stop reading and more shocking secrets are revealed…….I don’t want to say much more it is best to go in blind to read this book, it has so many twists and turns it will have you thinking about this book for days after with lots of questions.This is the first book I have read from Colleen, I understand she is a romance writer, this book is a psychological thriller, there is some romance but its sick and twisted… Just thought I would mention if you don’t like romance books….. its ok this book is not warm and fluffy.I highly recommend this book and give it a solid 5 stars.  “Find what you love and let it kill you.”― Colleen Hoover, VerityVerity by Colleen HooverMy review:This.People....especially people who HAVE NOT read this and, like myself, are burnt out on thrillers that go nowhere.READ. THIS. BOOK. This. BOOK. IT. IS. EXTRAORDINARY.I was up until 6:00 AM THIS MORNING reading. You cannot start this and just simply put it aside.OK..What to say? Well my review will have two parts. Spoiler free and spoilers. This part is spoiler free.So everyone knows the basic plot right? Lowen is an out of work writer who accepts a new job..to take over the book series, started by the legendary Author, Verity. Verity has been injured and cannot write. To do this, Lowen must move into Verity's house for a short time, living with the injured Verity, her husband Jeremy and their son Crew.They had two other children. Both were killed in tragic accidents.As Lowen acclimates, she discovers a dusty journal belonging to Verity. Lowen decides to read it.Bad idea.We, the readers, are also reading it. A book within a book. The chapters of Verity switch it up. One chapter is in Lowen's voice in the present,...as she starts becoming drawn to Jeremy and infused with the house and its painful and tragic history. But then we go back to the journal, Verity's journal, written before her tragic injury.I am saying no more about specific plot points for now.Gothic books are a genre I am so picky about. I like almost nothing in that genre because they are all the same. But when that genre is good..it's REALLY good. Several books in my favorite lists, including "Fiona, "The girl in the swing" and "My cousin Rachel" are Gothic. But there are not that many Gothic books that are tens.Verity is Gothic. Verity is a ten. I loved it.I am burnt out on thrillers. They all churn out the same stuff. But when they are good..they rock!Verity is a thriller. I loved this book.I am a fan of writers who can create atmosphere. I like to see the colors, the patterns, before me, as I read.Verity? Many colors. Shades of dark, gun metal gray, black, moody coal, imagery is haunting and antique, swirling in shadows and secrets and eerie and haunting Prose.There are many a republican who say corporations are people. If books are people..if the book Verity was a person..she would be a dark haunting sublime person with windswept hair who would invade the reader, encapsulating them with intoxicating and piercing darkness and Gothic whispers. The reader would never ever forget Verity.I have been soooo burnt out lately on DNF'S. This was a pleasure..an absolute pleasure.NOW..SPOILER ALERT: do not read on if you have not read the book.I loved the end. I was reminded of My Cousin Rachel. SO..my opinion.I think the journal was real. I do. Not that murder is ever OK. But I do believe the letter at the end was her way of trying to reel Jeremy back in. In other words, another lie. Honestly I could not and cannot, see any mother writing those horrible entries, even if not true. Bragging about her children's pain, trying to self abort twins, attempted murder, successful murder.I cannot see, a day or two after my child dies, writing a false confession and going into painful detail about my daughter's screams. I just can't.But what if the journal was not true? Verity, in my humble opinion, had many options.Let's say it wasn't true. Verity's solution in the book? Kidnapping her traumatized son and living like a fugitive, cutting him off from his dad and friends after he has already lost all his siblings?If it were not true..Verity could have gone to the police and hired a smart attorney. What about the entry on how she hated breast feeding and would not do it? Easy enough to find out if that were true. If it is found to be false that would strengthen case. The stolen dress? Trace it. See if she lied about that.Did Jeremy and she really have that conversation where he accuses her of ignoring one child? How was she as a mother? So much could have been checked out and proven.There were many ways she could have handled it. She made some really bad decisions. But I do not think the journal was fake. This would be such a great book club read. And The ending was so well written. Amazing! Anyway..read this book. It will keep you up and is one of the best thrillers I have ever read. Seriously..this is why we suffer threw the bad ones, to get to the gems like these. Colleen Hoover, you are quite the outstanding writer.  **** 4.5 Stars!!!!****WOW!!!! What a book! I haven’t been so captivated by a story in a long time! I shouldn’t be surprised that one of Colleen Hoover’s books would do it! This one is a different kind of book than her usual; but it was brilliant, even if at times it was hard to swallow!“Verity” is a mysterious thriller type book, and at times it is down right disturbing. It is a book you want to go in blind and do not go around reading reviews trying to get spoilers!!! Lol! ( trust me... I was tempted!!) As I was reading, I thought I had it all figured out... and I was feeling pretty darn smart!!! Then the last few chapters blew me out of the water!!! I was quite wrong and I must say that I love books that take me by surprise like that! This is definitely a must read and it is unlike anything you have read before! To be honest, for me that is a huge draw nowadays! There are too many stories that are the same old stuff out there. My passion and interest is hard to stir anymore... don’t get me wrong... I still love to read!!! It is just hard to find books that will stick with me and get my juices flowing! This one absolutely did!!Thanks to my Buddy Steph for travelling this journey with me! I loved discussing our theories together! Not very often you scream while reading a certain scene... hey Steph!!! Lmao!!!!  what the actual fuck4.5/5iiiiiii don’t even know where to begin. my heart is still beating so fast because i was terrified the whole way through. scary things really aren’t my favourite, especially paranormal type things, and this book was a bit like that: items disappearing, self locking doors, people appearing out of no where. however, i found i couldn’t stop reading even though i kind of hated it haha i was genuinely so scared. i am a baby at these things tho, i CAN’T watch scary films and reading is no different.it’s not 5 stars because i don’t think the relationship between Lowen and Jeremy had any depth to it and also i wasn’t f u l l y satisfied with the ending. it did feel a bit “and it was all a dream” kinda vibe.but overall, i thought it was amazing.  A "romantic thriller" with meh sex scenes and lackluster suspense. I don't get it….I wanted to see what all the hype was about, but I don't think Colleen Hoover is the author for me.&nbsp;I will say I liked the writing itself and the first chapter was great. Her plots aren't my thing/are pretty distasteful to me based on this and a look into a few of her other works. Then again I live for books about murder, so please don't take that as a value judgment on her or her fans.  Looking for a WTF read?! Verity has you covered — My first Colleen Hoover book and whoa, what a ride! Struggling writer Lowen is hired by Jeremy Crawford to finish his wife’s successful book series after she’s been in a terrible accident. Lowen travels to the Crawford home to sort through Verity’s work, hoping to find an outline or rough draft of the next book that she might be able to work from. Instead, she finds an autobiography and gets sucked into Verity’s deep, dark confessions revealed in the manuscript. Lowen tries to keep it together and decides not to share it with Jeremy, fearing he’ll be further devastated after all the loss the Crawford family has already suffered, but she finds this increasingly hard as as her feelings for him grow. I know from the many reviews I’ve read for Verity over the last few years, it’s much different than Hoover’s other stories. I tore through it, dying to know what would happen next, while cringing at the behavior going down — There are disturbing scenes in this book. The story is very compelling with a great pace of suspense, but far from pleasant.  *4.5MEU DEUS AAAAAAAAAAAAAAA??????!!!!!!!!! AAAAAAAAAAAAA UNPOPULAR OPINION ALERT!2 stars.This did not work for me. I had high hopes going into this as it’s a very popular book, but this was a complete miss. Perhaps the overhyping played a part?Lowen is hired to continue writing a book series after the original author is injured in an accident. Lowen moves into the authors home to work from her office surrounded by the authors family.This novel started off strong. I was pulled into the mystery and suspense of the first quarter but my connection ended there. The pace picked up for me again near the end during the big reveal, but it wasn’t enough to have me feeling any sort of investment in the storyline. My main issue was that the plot was absurd. It felt forced and highly unrealistic. I wasn’t bought into anything that was happening and found myself rolling my eyes throughout (wondering if I was reading the same book everyone else has loved so much). The characters lacked depth and believability. The main character irritated me to no end. The characters dialogue and inner thoughts lacked natural ease, often coming across as cheesy and awkward. The ‘romantic’ scenes felt like they were written by a 16-year-old boy. Sadly, I sit at the outlier table with my feelings on this. It is a much loved popular book that didn’t click with me on any level. If you haven’t read it yet, I encourage you to try it out and form your own opinion (as most would disagree with me).  I can't even form normal senteces right now. I'm so... I don't even know. I'm so confused...Me, the entire time reading this book:I mean...What the hell?Read this book, just read it. WHAT A MASTERPIECE! (Btw. I'm still in shock)I thought about writing a review, but trust me when I tell you that the experience is even better if you don’t have a clue what is going on and what is going to happen. ☺️Story, characters, writing, relationships 🌟🌟🌟🌟🌟  Quick summary: Trash with a Twist.This was a definite departure from the regular Hoover fare. It came off rather raunchy and YA for me.No depth to this which is ok if a thriller is delivering a thrill. But, this was lacking on so many levels- with the exception of the sexual one. The writing- oh so crass- how many times can you use the word “cock” and “dick” in a paragraph, a chapter, a book?!? I know what you were doing here Hoover, but it was making me twitch.Another one knocked off my physical shelf but I was tempted to kick it in the trash.The only saving grace that enabled me to give this a 2 in good conscience was an unseen twist. I only finished this as I was getting the squeeze from my daughter who thought this was so creepy. I told her to read Stephen King. Hoover obviously has a following for this to be rated a 4.37. Just not the following I follow.2**  Since this book was published last year, I have seen some people absolutely rave about it, while others didn't quite get it. I often heard people say, "This book is completely nuts," or "I was totally shook by this book." Too many mixed reviews made me somewhat reluctant to dive in, until just recently, when I decided it was time to take the plunge and read 
  Verity
."That's why I stay at home and write. I think the idea of me is better than the reality of me."Lowen is a struggling writer desperate for money. She's a talented writer, but she isn't willing to do any publicity for her books, so they don't sell very much. When she is given the chance to write the rest of a wildly popular book series written by best-selling author Verity Crawford, she knows she can’t pass up the opportunity, given the money offered. Verity, who was injured in a car accident, can no longer move or speak, and no one is sure she is even aware of her surroundings.Lowen is nervous about the pressure of having to write at Verity’s level. Verity’s handsome husband, Jeremy, invites Lowen to stay with them in their Vermont home so she can go through Verity’s notes to help her with the last three books. There's something about Jeremy that Lowen can't put her finger on, but she's drawn to him despite the fact that he's married to a woman in a serious condition, and that his family has experienced some significant tragedies.When she finds an unfinished manuscript, Lowen can’t help but read it. It appears to be Verity’s autobiography, full of startling confessions which horrify Lowen. Should she tell Jeremy what she’s found, or should she allow him to continue seeing his wife through the prism of his own memories?But as strange things keep happening in the house, and Lowen’s feelings for Jeremy intensify, she suspects that Verity might not be quite as disabled as she appears. Lowen must make the choice whether to reveal what she believes about Verity, no matter how crazy it sounds, and she also must decide whether to share Verity's written confessions with him. Of course, she has no idea whether doing so could put her—or even Jeremy and his son—in danger.I couldn’t put this book down and read it in just a few hours. I guess, however, the hype made me expect a lot crazier of a book than this was. There were some twists and turns, but I was hoping that the book would have a few more surprises. There were also a few plotlines that never went anywhere, unless I missed something, so that disappointed me. I guess I’ve read too many thrillers!!Clearly Hoover is a great writer, as she hooked me from the very start. I look forward to reading more of her books (which I understand are very different). I definitely give kudos to writers who venture out of their usual genre to try something new.See all of my reviews at itseithersadnessoreuphoria.blogspot.com.You can follow me on Instagram at  https://www.instagram.com/the.bookishworld.of.yrralh/.  
  The most UNPUTDOWNABLE book I've ever read.... EVER.
I could NOT put this book down! It's CREEEEEEPY. I read late into the morning to finish it. I actually had a reading/'I need sleep' headache.I. could. not. stop. turning. the. pages.I was also SO thrilled that Colleen Hoover did something different and dove into the suspense-thriller genre. I smiled at the line in the book where the author in the story (who wrote mostly thrillers) said she should probably try romance instead. Ha! Cracked me up.All that being said, this engrossing, creepy, unputdownable book was AMAZING....except for the very end. This is another one of those books where (to me) the first 99% was pure reading HEAVEN, and the last 1% was disappointing.I had several possible endings all set up in my head (which I would have preferred), but none of them were the actual ending. For me, this ending was a big let-down, especially after such a fun and truly gripping read.BUT.... 5 HUGE STARS for the gloriously fun, highly-addictive ride!!! ...and for the always enjoyable perfection of Colleen Hoover's writing style. I can definitely recommend this thriller, even if the ending wasn't my favorite. Enjoy it!  
  4.5 Stars!
... Hair-raising and seductive.ver•i•ty | ˈverəti | • n. the quality or state of being true or real.Note: This is a romantic thriller.Actually, I really hesitated to read Verity. I have no logical reason why. And I regretted it. Because hell this book was damn good! I liked being inside Verity's head. A round of applause for an another winner from Colleen Hoover!The story mainly focused on Verity, obviously. I liked the flow of the story. But I finished it for three days. I swear, it's not the book, its just me. Thriller is my kryptonite, just fyi. I hardly find thrillers enjoyable. Although, human connection greatly helped me to continue the story. Verity was injured from a car accident. She couldn't write again. Lowen was hired to finish her remaining three novels. To have an idea how Verity's mind works, she'd been advised to sought infos from Verity's notes and books in her office. There, she found Verity's autobiography. The unfinished piece of Verity's truths and lies that could destroy her family forever.As Lowen dwells in Verity's house, her feelings for Jeremy intensified. Reading Verity's manuscript chapter per chapter made her love him more. But, Jeremy was loyal in his wife. To have him, Lowen's only chance was to tell him about the manuscript. Only she did not realize who the true villain of the story was.
  
    "No matter which way I look at it, it’s clear that Verity was a master at manipulating the truth. The only question that remains is: Which truth was she manipulating?"
  
This book left me hanging on a ledge. I didn't saw it coming! Do you know whose the real master manipulator? Colleen Hoover! I wish I have a mind like hers. Overall, I enjoyed the story. I adored Verity, the book and herself. I have a few issues with the hero and heroine, but I don't want to spoil anything. I extremely recommend this!   The last 20 pages felt as if Hoover eventually realized that she didn't have a twist in her thriller, so she quickly decided to throw something in there. Had it not been for such a ridiculously stupid ending, I would have given it a generous 3 stars. But, alas, since I spent an evening of my life on this nonsense, I shall rate it accordingly.   Eh, cliche thriller at times. I know it’s not her normal style and the twist is a little interesting but it’s not a gripping novel by any means. It’s an effortless read though, not boring, but too steamy for me - as in, not enough story because there’s so much steam it takes up a ton of the book. And the steam itself, very gritty. If you want a really good mystery suspense thriller, read “All The Dangerous Things” by Stacy Willingham. MUCH better read…  My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...Wow! My thoughts are all over the place. I’ve read one other book by Colleen Hoover. “It Ends With Us” was an emotional read that I enjoyed. This probably wasn’t the best book to read right before I went to sleep. Once I started reading, I couldn't stop. It’s all I could think about.Author Lowen Ashleigh is on her way to a meeting when she witnesses a deadly car accident. A man asks her if she's hurt. Lowen realizes he’s asking because evidence of the accident is all over her shirt. The impact of what she just witnessed hits her and she starts to feel light-headed. The man, Jeremy helps her clean up. He asks if she'll be okay as he needs to get to a meeting. Lowen reassures him that she will be fine and they part ways.Lowen and her agent, Corey are meeting with a publisher about a potential offer. They both must sign a non-disclosure agreement before the meeting begins. On the way to the elevator, Lowen runs into Jeremy again. His meeting is on the fourteenth floor which is also where Lowen’s meeting is scheduled to take place.What are the odds?When Lowen hears the offer she’s both stunned and wary. Jeremy’s wife is author, Verity Crawford. They are looking for an author to complete the remaining three books in Verity’s best-selling series. Verity is unable to finish them herself due to medical reasons. Although Lowen needs the money, she doesn’t think this will work for her. She hates social media, having to do meet and greets, and all the other things that go along with promoting a book.But when Jeremy and Lowen speak again privately, their conversation ends with her accepting the offer…This will change Lowen’s life in more ways than she can imagine. Jeremy suggests that Lowen visit their home to see if she can find some of what she may need to get started in Verity’s office. Lowen is nervous about staying in their home, but she doesn’t have a lot of options at the moment. As she starts to go through Verity’s office she comes across a manuscript. Lowen isn’t sure if she should be reading it, but once she starts, she can’t stop. What Lowen reads shocks her to her very core. THIS BOOK! This is one wild novel that goes places I never would have expected. The story-line had me gripped.The opening (still makes me shudder) was rather gruesome but it pulled me in. I can’t even imagine how I would react in that situation.Colleen Hoover knows how to create intense scenes with complex characters. There's no shortage of drama and thrills in this novel. Some of the subject matter is very dark and there are also a lot of explicit sex scenes, so I understand that this book may not be for everyone.In the words of Verity herself…“
  There is no light where we’re going. This is your final warning. Darkness ahead”
A diabolical read about obsession, love, secrets, lies, manipulation, and revenge!  A stirring and disturbing book, Verify kept me reading uninterrupted until I finished. The nature of truth, the verity of the account is called into question, so much so that you don't know what to believe. Lowen is a lonely, depressed and poor writer who is suddenly offered a very lucrative position. She, is to be the ghostwriter for a series of books whose original author, Verity is in a vegetative state but still living after a car accident.The family has also just suffered from the deaths of their twin daughters. Lowen's agent doesn't want her to take the job, even though it means a hefty commission for him. He feels there is something off, but doesn't know what, about Jeremy, the husband.Not only is Lowen meant to continue the writing, she also is asked to go to the couple's house and delve through Verity's notes. She wants only to go there for a night, but as it turns into day after day, Lowen is both attracted to and repulsed by the whole setup, as she discovers the many secrets of this seemingly perfect family.  ALRIGHT. (Yes, I used this word purposely)This wasn’t even on my TBR list yesterday morning, but after reading another rave review, I not only added it, but moved it straight to the top and read it almost entirely in one sitting-IT IS THAT GRIPPING!!Lowen Ashleigh begins her day witnessing the death of a man too busy on his cell phone to pay attention to his surroundings. “Death by routine” The day has not started well. But by the end of the day, she has been hired to complete the last three books in a successful series that author Verity (TRUTH) Crawford is unable to finish due to injury. The series is called “The Noble Virtues” and the three left are Courage, Truth and Honor. Lowen arrives at the author’s home, to read the first six books, and to sort through her notes, hoping to find outlines for the remaining books. What she finds instead is the author’s autobiography, entitled “So Be It”. It’s filled with chilling confessions, and chapter after chapter, of detailed sexual encounters with her husband Jeremy. (necessary for this plot, but a bit more than was necessary to get the point across-for me ) As Lowen learns more, through this autobiography, her own courage, truth and honor are about to be tested...This was my first book by Colleen Hoover, since she usually writes “romance” and I don’t usually read that genre, but, I really enjoyed her first “romantic thriller” (at least the thriller part of it) and hope she will write more. And, I liked that the ending leaves you wondering about the TRUTH...  Verity was for me what The Silent Patient wasn’t— a real page turner of a thriller. From the first page to the last. Sinister. Discordant. Creepy. The first chapter is jarring, bloody and chaotic. I felt as thrown off kilter as our reclusive and oddly mousy heroine. You’ll find yourself questioning every character’s motive. And with several narrators, truth becomes an enigmatic puzzle. A modern cross between Rebecca and Jane Eyre but with an ending more likely found in a Hitchcock movie.PS— Why this is in the romance category is beyond me. There’s plenty of sex and relationship stuff, but not my definition of romance.  Wtf Colleen?!! --------------------------------------------------------------------This has been on my wishlist for a while, so I've decided to go for it! Thanks to the puzzle extraordinaire for taking the stressful decision of first book of the year out of my hands 😂😂 With a little help from Kim, I caved to the hype and to my fear of missing out and read Verity by Colleen Hoover with her and I have to say Colleen Hoover nailed it with this one!!!This romantic thriller is like no other book I have read before. I was feeling a few different things while reading this story. I was entertained yet a little uncomfortable at times. That romantic part to this thriller was a bit steamy for this reader and my eyes were rolling faster than I could turn those pages. I have to admit that those steamy parts really added to those elements that make up the thriller side to the story. My eyes stopped rolling and almost popped out of my head as the tension increased with every chapter.I loved the unreliable characters here and we had many questions and a few theories here while reading this one. Now that ending was absolutely brilliant. I loved the way this story wrapped up, I did start to get a bit worried here with that ending but when that final gasp-worthy twist came I sprung up from my chair and starting cheering "Nailed It". I highly recommend.  I swear, this is my face while reading this entire book and it keeps getting worse and worse. What IS this thing????-------------Sweet lord, this was so SO good!Okay so, I'm done now. I made it through. This book was damn scary, twisted, fucked up and amazing. And that ending. I'm one of those dumb readers who doesn't see things coming so my mouth was hanging open while reading the final chapters. I was sure I was going to vent about everything wrong and horrible that happened in this book but now I just can't anymore.Read this book and be prepared for the worst.  — 3.5 Stars ★Team Manuscript or Team Letter?No, I'm Team "They all deserve to be in jail right now!!"After reading the bonus scene I can finally admit that each and every character in this book is fucked up and creepy even that Verity's kid!! And why are they roaming freely after all the fucked up things they did!?!?!?This was creepy, thrilling, and even entertaining but I've never hated book characters this much in my life!!  Es un libro entretenido, con buenos giros dentro de la trama, pero predecible aunque al final intente sorprender. Se lee rapidísimo. This isn't a book, it's a visceral experience. Colleen's words will reach elbow-deep into your brain and your feels and your fragile little heart, and they will fuck shit up in there. They'll activate triggers and push buttons marked DO NOT PUSH. They'll make your heart race and palms sweat. They'll challenge your courage and moral fiber. Read them anyway. Marvel at their power. Then go play with some puppies or something until their effects wear off.   what a ridee I think I need time to process what I just read. ☆﹒ 𝟏 𝐬𝐭𝐚𝐫—No quote bc I genuinely despised every character.VERY mild spoilers ahead.♥︎ Boy do I have a lot to say about this book. Ok first off the basis of the plot was fine l and it set up for a good story. My frustrations lie within the delivery. Hoover quite literally lays it all out for you and leaves no room for speculation. And any of the surprising moments are moments that are so far fetched and insane nothing starts to make sense. Everything just started to become a jumble of super strange events and in the end no progression was made. Now, I understand this is a romance thriller and it’s meant to be weird and fucked up, but at LEAST make it weird and fucked up while still making sense. The romance in this was so stupid especially between Lowen and Jeremy. It was so random and had absolutely no substance it was just like “we’re both people who’ve seen pretty fucked up shit….now let’s fuck” and everything else in the story is equally as stupid. ♡ The ending was awful and a cop out. I can’t explain into much detail without spoiling, but imagine your on a journey and you’ve been collecting knowledge along the way, when you’ve almost reached the end you have almost all the knowledge you need….until you reach the end and you find out that you didn’t need any of that knowledge to begin with and it was all for nothing and there’s no purpose in life and you start to question why you went on the journey in the first place and suddenly wish you were taking a journey that’s much more worth your time than the one you just took. Yea that’s pretty much how I felt. After I read that ending the first thing I wanted to do was forget. ♥︎ Characters are equally as disappointing as the plot. Lowen is OBJECTIVELY an idiot. No doubt in my mind. Not even one of her decisions in this book was smart or necessary. Verity is equally as stupid because all her problems would have been solved if she just, idk, told her husband about her work life (and don’t give me any of that “she said he wasn’t interested”) from what I remember she ASSUMED he wouldn’t listen therefore creating the bad communication and all problems that come after. Jeremy is also fucking AWFUL. Idk why Hoover paints him out to be this super sweet guy when in reality he’s not. Even in the end when you learn what he’s done Hoovers still like, “he’s the sweetest guy”. HE’S ABSOLUTELY NOT. He’s an idiot and he also has bad communication skills just like Verity. ♡ The only reason I gave this 2 stars is because it was super easy to read and brought up good discussions for the book club. But it FAILS in every other category. UPDATE: I lied…book club convinced me to push it down to 1 star𝗻𝗼𝘁𝗲: 𝗺𝘆 𝗿𝗲𝘃𝗶𝗲𝘄𝘀 𝗮𝗿𝗲 𝗻𝗼𝘁 𝗺𝗮𝗱𝗲 𝘁𝗼 𝗱𝗲𝘁𝗲𝗿 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝗳𝗿𝗼𝗺 𝗿𝗲𝗮𝗱𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝘁𝗵𝗲 𝗯𝗼𝗼𝗸, 𝘁𝗵𝗲𝘆 𝗮𝗿𝗲 𝗮𝗹𝘀𝗼 𝗻𝗼𝘁 𝗺𝗮𝗱𝗲 𝘁𝗼 𝗳𝗼𝗿𝗰𝗲 𝘆𝗼𝘂 𝘁𝗼 𝗹𝗶𝗸𝗲 𝗶𝘁 𝗲𝗶𝘁𝗵𝗲𝗿. 𝘁𝗵𝗲𝘆 𝗮𝗿𝗲 𝗺𝘆 𝗼𝗽𝗶𝗻𝗶𝗼𝗻 𝗮𝗻𝗱 𝗺𝘆 𝗼𝗽𝗶𝗻𝗶𝗼𝗻 𝘀𝗼𝗹𝗲𝗹𝘆.   4 stars! My first takeaway from this book: Colleen Hoover needs a hug. And since I am very awkward, someone else needs to give her that hug, not me.Second takeaway: With every new book Colleen puts out, she continues to grow as a writer and an author. No story is the same, and this story was very different from her previous work. It's not a genre I would typically choose to read, but I would read Hoover describing paint drying so I was very down to read this book.From the first line this book is incredibly compelling. It's a book you can't put down, even when you are horrified and really want to. It's not a full 5 stars because I guessed a lot of what would happen. Not going to say what because, spoilers. But I guessed several...... "twists". Even though it was fairly predictable I very much enjoyed reading this book and am excited to see what else Hoover is going to bring to the table.   The ingenuity to think up a story like this! I'm late to the party but I'm blown away after listening to this audio! I have only read one romance book by Colleen Hoover and she's fabulous with that genre. She has pulled a complete 360 with this dark and twisted and very disturbing tale and I can safely say she can write a phenomenal psychological thriller! Kudos to her!!  “It's natural, to assume the worst in people, even if that assumption is only for a split second.” ― Colleen Hoover, VerityThis was a buddy read with  Afaf and Khadija🌟5/5🌟What kind of mind-fuckery was this?I didn't know Colleen Hoover could write thrillers this good, because this is one of the most brilliantly plotted and carefully constructed thrillers I've ever read and it is entirely worthy of the hype surrounding it. Disturbing, sexy, clever, dark and so addictive, plus an ending that will make you question everything....  there were so many plot holes i was so confused how this got past editors and got greenlit to publish It is no doubt that Hugely popular and successful Colleen Hoover is an accomplished Writer...duh!! But now she's shown a lot of courage by trying to step outside her flowers and unicorns, glittered box to venture out in darker alleyways of the human psyche. I picked up the book due to the hype and buzz it generated. I am not a YA/NA fan so barring 4 books, I've steered away. Maybe I'm cynical as a dark, Tabboo reader. I need thrill, twists, turns, danger and dread. Books which make my mouth open with lots of OMG and WTF moments. Anyway, then I heard about this book. I thought- she's colleen not tarryn, I mean how dark can she go....knowwhatimean. well, I'd say I was in for a very delicious surprise!!!Colleen writes with simplistic detail. there's no clutter in her narrative, very clean, clear language, nice &amp; smooth flow, tidy plot and not too large of a family tree of characters. Her basic formula is maintained here too. There's an ominous cloud that seems to be following the Crawfords and over Lowen by association.
  Funny how one of the most populated cities in the world can double as a paradise for agoraphobics.Here, I’m invisible. Unimportant. Manhattan is too crowded to give a shit about me, and I love her for it.
Human beings can surpass in cruelty and animosity. As is experienced first hand by Lowen Ashleigh, a struggling, sociopath of a writer, up to her neck in bills that she inherited from her mother.Down on her luck, she's given a lifeline. Verity Crawford, a hugely successful thriller writer is invalid, she needs a co-writer to finish her 6 novels and Jeremy Crawford, the husband, invites her to come stay with them to go through veritys's backlog.
  It’s what you do when you’ve experienced the worst of the worst. You seek out people like you…people worse off than you…and you use them to make yourself feel better about the terrible things that have happened to you.
The setting changes from NYC to Vermont. A house by a lake, Verity bed ridden in a vegetative state, two daughters dead and a surviving husband and a 5 year old son-Crew. Ill luck seems to hover over them at all times, everything that can goo wrong-does!
  "Chronics. Prone to chronic tragedy. One terrible thing after another.”
Bonded by grief, the kindred spirits of Jeremy &amp; Lowen come closer till they can breathe each other's sadness and misery. What happens is inevitable and a prelude to a disaster just waiting at the top of the stairs for them *gasp*
  My heart felt full—of what, I don’t know. But my heart had felt empty with the men who came before Jeremy. It was amazing how different sex felt when a person used more than their body. I involved my heart and my gut and my mind and my hope. I fell in that moment. Not in love. I just…fell.
Verity's autobiographical manuscript just was waiting to be discovered by Lowen. When she starts reading, it's like the bottom falls out from under her. The world flips upside down and she starts doubting her own senses. Meanwhile Jeremy is being bogged down by a heavy family secret and has to fight his own heart every single day
  People get married assuming they’ll live long, happy lives together. What happens when one of those is cut short, but the other is expected to live out those vows for the rest of their life?
To say I was hooked is an understatement. I COULDN'T KEEP THE BOOK DOWN!!! Even for a minute. First line and my eyes wouldn't stop reading. I enjoyed reading this complex human story with every facet of human behaviour. The good, the bad, the ugly. I really wanted the ending to be more evil, more twisted, more dark.But seeing that colleen has dipped her toes in the murky waters, hoepfully with next book she'll jump in with both feet in the brackish lake......no life vests allowed! But whatever she writes, her 50,000+ followers and thousands of readers will forever be impacted by her fabulous books. Everyone will take away something from all or any of her books at any given time. Even cynics like me. I was really impressed with her IEWU, that book resonated deeply with me.
  “Your writing matters to me, Colleen.”

  4.5 stars for Antagonistic Journaling
#BookBistroBlogApproved Follow us on :FB - https://www.facebook.com/groups/BookB...Blog -https://bookbistroblogcom.wordpress.comBlog -https://bookbistroblogger.blogspot.comTwitter - https://www.twitter.com/BookBistroInstagram - https://www.instagram.com/BookBistroBlog  “The only question that remains is: Which truth was she manipulating?”Holy shit. That’s all I could say about this after putting the book down. HOLY FUCKING SHIT. This book was so GRIPPING, TERRIFYING and had me locking my bedroom door and hiding under my blanket at 2am!! By far my favorite Coho book ever! And now to answer the most anticipated question. Am I team manuscript or letter? the answer is: I believe not a single character in the book was innocent. It’s half half, the duality of truth. The intention of the book is not for the reader to decide if Verity was telling the truth or not, but to show how there is a hidden, lying, dark side that can reside within all of us - consciously or subconsciously, that can come out when we seek to protect our self interest. I believe that a part of Verity was telling the truth and a part of Jeremy was hiding something more sinister than we originally believed. Lowen, Verity, Jeremy, and even the kid (Crew) were all living half truths/half lies. No one was innocent and it was all a matter of manipulation. Hence, we are left with more questions than answers and yet it’s still a very phenomenal and compelling read. KUDOS to Coho and to the people who recommended me this amazing book &lt;3  This book can easily be read in one sitting: it's mysterious, creepy and fast paced. Also, the writing flows easily. I really liked it!To me, it couldn't deserve 5 stars because there was no ''wow factor''. I had a couple ideas for the final twist and I think it could have been more jaw-dropping. The author still chose a satisfying way to end the story. All in all, a very good book!  This book was INSANE!!!!! This was my first CoHo book, and it certainly won't be my last! Verity definitely had me in my feels. One minute I was sobbing, the next minute I was screaming. This book was definitely a heart breaker for me. Colleen Hoover is for sure an author who has my emotions all over the place. Verity had me hooked from the very first page and I couldn't put it down! With all the twists and turns, I thought I knew what was going to happen, but boy was I wrong! This book was definitely a big hype for me and i'm so happy that I picked it up!When I first started this book I lost all respect for Verity Crawford, but as the story went on I didn't really know what to think of her. Lowen Ashleigh is a struggling writer on the edge of financial ruin when she accepts the job offer of a lifetime, that she really couldn't pass up. Jeremy Crawford, the husband of best selling author Verity Crawford, has hired Lowen to complete the remaining books in a successful series his injured wife can't finish. Jeremy and Lowen met in Manhattan when a man got hit by a car and his blood was all over Lowen, so Jeremy lent Lowen his shirt. Verity and Jeremy are grieving the loss of their twin daughters, when one night Verity hits a tree which leaves her with serious injuries, and she can longer write her series. When Lowen arrives at the Crawford's home in Vermont, she's ready to sort through years of Verity's notes and outlines, hopping to find enough material to get her started. What Lowen doesn't expect to uncover in the chaotic mess of Verity's office is an unfinished autobiography Verity never intended for anyone to read. Lowen is there to finish the series but she starts to get behind when she starts to read Verity's autobiography each night. One of the twins died of an allergy, and the other one drowned in the lake behind the Crawford's house. Page after page of bone chilling admissions, including Verity's recollection of what really happened the day her daughter died. Later on Jeremy and Verity welcome their son Crew into the world. Day after day of reading Verity's manuscript, Lowen finds new secrets each time. Lowen decides to keep the manuscript hidden from Jeremy, because he's already grieving the loss of his daughter and Lowen knows the contents of this manuscript would devastate Jeremy. There are a bunch of trigger moments in this story, so read at your own pace. As Lowen's feelings for Jeremy intensify, she recognizes all the ways she could benefit if he were to read his wife's words. After all, no matter how devoted Jeremy is to his injured wife, a truth this horrifying would make it impossible for him to continue to love Verity the way he does. Verity gets so jealous when their twin daughters are born because Jeremy loves his daughters more than he loves Verity. I don't know how Colleen Hoover came up with a book so dark and twisted, but it was just so good!Are you team manuscript or team letters?-I'm 100% team manuscript!!!!!  Read for a reading vlog: https://youtu.be/tV1gXY7Vur4Wheeww.....yeah this was not for me. The prose is fine and it is compulsively readable which I imagine is why people seem to like it, but I hated so many things about this. HUGE content warning for graphic abuse of children and infants that was incredibly disturbing to read and unnecessary. This book also vilifies things like women not bonding emotionally with their babies right away, which is actually pretty common, especially after a traumatic birth experience or while experiencing post-partum depression. There were also a lot of gross and cringey scenes tied to the infidelity plotline. And throw in some pretty disgusting ableist lines while we're at it, such as our main character thinking it would have been better for a disabled person to die rather than be unable to interact with their family. I'm sorry, but what? Why is that in here? Also, I think the twist at the end feels like a cheat, and it didn't make me feel any fresh sense of there being a good reason for having to wade through the content of this book. I read it for a vlog project and after I'm done I don't think I'll be reading more from this author.  I wish I could go back and unread this book. SEVERE trigger warnings for child abuse to anyone considering this read. I can’t believe the high average rating of this book. I felt physically sick multiple times throughout, and can’t seem to figure out what the point was. Maybe I’m not suited to this genre, whatever it is, but I am completely disgusted. My advice? Don’t read this book.   This was a dark and intriguing romantic thriller about obsession, tragedy, family and love. Verity follows Lowen who is a broke and struggling writer who accepts an offer which will jump start her career. Lowen has been hired to continue a successful series by the author Verity Crawford who was injured in an accident. While at the Crawford home Lowen finds an autobiography about Verity's life which is a disturbing and shocking. Lowen must decide whether to tell Jeremy, Verity's husband about the autobiography. This book was so good! This book was nothing like anything I read before, it was intense, scary, heartbreaking, sad and interesting. I was on the edge of my seat the entire time I was reading this book. The pacing in this book was perfect, I felt like I couldn't put this book down. The characters are so complex and complicated. I felt like a was in Lowen's head experiencing the same emotions she felt. Lowen was such an interesting character, she had so many layers. When I was reading Verity's autobiography from her perspective I felt intense emotions including shock, heartbreak and sadness. The character development was excellent. There were several twists and turns that I didn't expect. I really liked the author's writing style and the descriptions helped me paint a picture in my head. The ending was so shocking! I recommend this book to anyone who loves thrillers, mysteries and interesting characters.   Can't believe that I kinda guessed the ending of this book, so that's a downer😬 but the writing is excellent and the story istelf is realy good , I don't normally read thrillers but this is colleen hoover the queen👑 of writing excellent books so I had to try and it is for sure a dark but engaging story , 3⭐⭐⭐  literally speechless rn. wow. This book both mentally and emotionally fucked me in all aspects. the way just from the opening line already got me wrapped around coho's finger, the writing style was phenomenal, the characters, the insane turn of events esp the ending....oh my god it's that type of book you can't seem to put it on hold bc of the angst, and after reading everything, you literally won't get over it for weeks. Ngl reading this at night even heightened the tension bc some parts fr spooked me (but in a good way). Hands down my 2nd favourite book for this year. TEAM MANUSCRIPT ALL THE MF WAY  i was supposed to read only 100 pages and i read the entire thing in an hour. WTF WTF WTF my jaw is on the flooooor??? everytime i was like it couldn’t possibly get worse it did. if you thought gone girl was wild …… brooooooo?????also the COVER?? i thought it was representing some metaphysical abstract thing?? i am ILLLLLLLi am team manuscript but i believe in some parts of the letter  My first CoHo book and what a ride it was! Lowen is a struggling writer with a dwindling bank account. Just as she is about to be evicted from her apartment she lands the job of a lifetime. She's been offered to finish a book series written by best-selling author, Verity Crawford. Verity has recently been in a car accident that has left her basically brain damaged and bed ridden. Verity's husband, Jeremy, invites Lowen to stay at their Vermont home while she sorts through Verity's office, lap top, notes and manuscripts in order to finish the book series. One manuscript she stumbles upon tells a tale she can't ignore. It appears to be an autobiography and she is unable to resist the allure of Verity's words no matter how disturbing it gets."And here is where it get's real. The guts of my autobiography. This is the point when other authors would paint themselves in a better light, rather than throw themselves into an x-ray machine.But there is no light where we're going. This is your final warning. Darkness ahead." As I was reading this book I must of said "What the fuck?!" a thousand times. Colleen Hoover was not afraid to delve into the darkness to make her readers squirm and for that I applaud her. My only little gripe, and it's a personal one, was that it was a little heavy in the sex scenes for my personal tastes. All in all this was wild and entertaining ride that I'm glad I took! 4 stars!  OMGOSH, the mind of a writer! Unputdownable! It all begins with a chance meeting and a shocking "death by routine" for a gripping start! Death by routine....hmmmmm, very scary in this day and age....and you'll see why. The storyline follows a struggling writer who desperately needs a job and a place to live since her recent eviction. A lucrative offer to complete a series of books by an accomplished author seems right up her alley....until extensive research turns up an autobiography from hell. (no spoiler here)  With the discovery comes evil, tragedy and a multitude of obsessive sexual descriptions that unfold to make her new temporary residence one of sadness and horror. In VERITY, "With the imagination of a writer, every noise becomes a threat." In  VERITY....my first and not last read by Colleen Hoover....the outcome turned out to be quite unexpected; the novel, one fine suspenseful and creepy work of fiction!  3.5 out of 5 stars.I was actually considering to give this book 1 or 2 stars, but that ending wrecked me entirely. I can't believe how CoHo was able to write this, she outdone herself this time with her new book. I may have shed a tear or two with Colleen's previous books but this one has made me cry not because I'm sad or happy. That's all I can write for now, I will post a better review. *********Wait...PSYCHOLOGICAL ROMANTIC THRILLER?BY COLLEEN HOOVER?WHAT IS SHE TRYING TO DO TO US?  I found this to a page-turner, for sure. I can’t say I was completely satisfied with the twists and turns since there weren’t but one or two until the end; however, I am not sure if the end would be classified as a twist or as termination. The reason why it’s a page turner is because it’s a very easy read, and the element of thrill is really drawn out the entire novel. A lot of the thrill is clouded with sex and romance, so you must keep reading in order to unearth anything worth anticipating about the main mystery regarding Verity.The first two pages start off super strong with blood everywhere and someone’s skull getting smashed. But it only lasts two pages and doesn’t have anything to do with the rest of the story. I liked it, but I wouldn't read it again knowing what I know now. A good book for a sick day or rainy day in bed. I enjoyed the perspective of Verity, and wish more would have been from her than Lowen who is the narrator and main character.  Lowen Ashleigh is a struggling writer who has just lost her mother to cancer. On the verge of being evicted, her luck changes when she meets Jeremy Crawford. Jeremy's wife Verity, a successful author, needs someone to coauthor the remaining three books in her series. After losing both their twins in separate accidents, Verity was in a horrific car wreck. Lowen arrives at the Crawford's home to spend a few days there to go through Verity's office. She comes upon an unfinished autobiography, Verity never intended for anyone to read. As she skims the pages, chills start going through her body. Admissions about the Crawford's marriage and the twin's accidents are revealed, along with strange things happening inside the house. Nothing is ever as it seems.First off, what the hell!?! The ending did not see that coming at all. I felt guilty about the internal evil thoughts I was having. Then I thought, what if the ending was just another manipulation ploy! I loved how it was left for you to decide.  What the FUCK Original, Unpredictable, Twisted &amp; Surprising!The following ratings are out of 5:Audio/Narration: 🎧🎧🎧🎧🎧Romance: 💚💙❤️🧡💖Heat/Steam: 🔥🔥🔥🔥🔥Story/Plot: 📘📗📕📙📔World building: 🌏🌏🌍🌎🌏Character development: 🙂🙂🙂🙂🙂The setting: New York City &amp; VermontThe Hero(s): Jeremy Crawford - Married to successful author Verity Crawford. Verity was in an accident and the publisher needs another writer too complete the series Verity had started. The heroine: Lowen Ashleigh - an author who lives in New York. She suffers from anxiety and doesn’t like being around people much so she doesn’t do press or book signings. She spent the last 9 months taking care of her mother who had Cancer and passed away last week.The Love Story: Jeremy and Lowen have a very unusual first meeting and though they are attracted to each other right away, he is married to Verity and needs Lowen to help complete the series Verity began. Verity needs the money and agrees to help. To begin, she will be spending a few days at their home in Vermont to do research and gather any notes Verity may have had on the series. I don’t want to give anything away in this review because this is the kind of book you have to read and find out little by little what is really going on. I will say a few things because I know many people don’t like anything with a love triangle. This isn’t a love triangle, but there are feelings of guilt involved. All I can really say besides that is that this book was AWESOME! I love a book with a completely original plot which is also totally unpredictable. Every time I thought I knew what was going on, I ended up completely surprised by what happened next and the ending was totally crazy. This was told from two POV’s, Lowen and Verity. So the audio was two female voices. It usually bothers me when female’s read the male voice even when that section is from a female POV, but it didn’t bother me at all this time. The book was so good I just cant say enough!Blog|Goodreads|Facebook|Instagram|Twitter|BookBub    4 Psycho, Crazy and Creepy STARSWHAT THE HELL DID I READ? is seriously? Is that the end?Esa fue mi reacción al terminar el libro.👆👆Tenía muchas ganas de leer este libro desde que CoHo lo anunció, porque es algo diferente a lo que nos tiene acostumbrados. Es un Thriller con suspense y un toque de romance.Parece el estilo de Mud Vein y Bad Mommy de Tarryn Fisher pero con la magnífica pluma que caracteriza a Colleen Hoover.El libro es bastante adictivo y PERTURBADOR y tiene escenas muy creepy. Desde la primera escena ya sabes que el libro va a ser otra cosa, es bastante bizarra.⚠ATTENTION: Esta reseña contiene spoilers🚫✋La historia es narrada desde el punto de vista de Lowen en el presente y por Verity en el pasado.Lowen es una escritora poco reconocida con fondos casi nulos al borde de quedar en la calle, recibe una propuesta de la editorial y el esposo de Verity que es una famosa escritora de Suspenso para que termine una serie de ésta ya que ha tenido un accidente y está incapacitada. Lowen se tiene que trasladar a la casa de ellos para que pueda estudiar las notas y escritos y así poder escribir los libros. Ya instalada descubre una autobiografía de Verity que comienza cuando ella conoce a Jeremy su marido, Verity narra a detalle todos los sucesos de su matrimonio así como sus pensamientos por lo que Lowen descubre que Verity puede que no sea lo que aparenta con Jeremy.Mis partes favoritas fueron las narradas por Verity, los pensamientos de esta mujer me daban escalofríos  Cuando narra la parte donde se quiere practicar un aborto ya de 5 meses de embarazo con un gancho de la ropa auch o los celos que le tiene a sus hijas porque según ella le están robando el amor de su marido o su intento de asesinato de su bebé de 6 meses ahogándola con los dedos  MADRE MÍA.👪
   PERSONAJES
Algo que realmente me gustó fue el desarrollo de los personajes y sus personalidades bastante definidas o eso es lo que nos quiere hacer creer la autora.Lowen es nuestra protagonista un poco antisocial, solitaria y con traumas que viene cargando de la niñez. Ella se enamora de Jeremy cuando lo va conociendo en la vida real y a la vez de la autobiografía de Verity. Ella al leer esos escritos empieza a sospechar de Verity está asustada lo que quiere es huir pero por una u otra razón siempre se queda.Cada vez que le pasaba algo extraño en la casa o se asustaba yo estaba mordiéndome las uñas de la angustia.
  
    Lowen Ashleigh, falling for an unavailable man with more baggage than even she has.Now that’s karma
  
Jeremy es de esos protagonistas que nos tiene acostumbradas CoHo, adorable, perfecto, dulce que fácil te enamoras de él, si este libro hubiera sido de romance y se desarrollara esa parte romántica de él yo creo que si caigoJeremy es un hombre que ha sufrido bastante para empezar en un periodo de un año se murieron sus gemelas primero una y a los meses la otra después su esposa sufre un terrible accidente que la deja es estado vegetal.Jeremy ama a sus hijos por sobre todas la cosas y por ellos haría lo que fuera es por eso que la muerte de sus hijas lo ha deja con un dolor inmenso.Siente una gran atracción por Lowen y poco a poco se va enamorando de ella 
  
    “Your writing matters to me, Lowen.”
  
Y finalmente tenemos a Verity el personaje mejor desarrollado de la historia es TREMENDO, esta mujer viene siendo la “Villana” cumple todos los estándares de una Psicópata manipuladora, está obsesionada con su marido y de ahí en fuera no le importa nada era demasiado ENFERMO todo lo que hacía y el porqué.  Esta mujer era muy creepy pero es sin duda el mejor personaje del libro
  
    But when a person finds someone who makes all the negativity in their lives disappear, it’s hard not to feed off that person. I fed off Jeremy in order to keep my soul alive
  
Y luego tenemos el final… Colleen querías jugar con mi cabeza y no lo lograste o sí? A Mí me gustó el final siempre quedo insatisfecha con CoHo por sus horribles finales pero esta vez quedé contenta sea cierto o no yo creo que estuvo genial y no NO QUIERO SEGUNDA PARTE. Obviamente no me creí la carta dirigida hacia Jeremy, Verity es una manipuladora y la verdad la modificaba a su conveniencia obvio sabía que iba a ser descubierta y por eso escribió la carta, además que sus escritos estaban narrados con tanto detalle sobre todo la muerte de Harper y sus pensamientos hacia ella que me niego a que no sea verdad, pero si por un motivo la carta fuera cierta que sangre tan fría y que mente de escritor tan enfermo para escribir eso.Lo que si creo de la carta fue que Jeremy si la descubrió y la trató de matar dos veces y cuando la logró matar y leí eso no me lo podía creer OMG!! Y es que si era inocente OMG!! Que obvio no lo creo pero de todas maneras te los planteas.Pero de igual manera si era inocente o no a mí me gustó su final   This suspense novel was so suspenseful it stressed me out. I had to speed read sections like I was a little kid hiding under a blanket while watching a scary movie. I doubted the veracity of everything—what was true and what wasn’t?When Lowen, an introvert with a touch of agoraphobia, is asked to finish the series of successful novels by an author with a brain injury, she hesitates, but when the author’s husband says she can use a pen name and retain her anonymity, she agrees, in part because she desperately needs the income. To take over the series, she moves into Jeremy and Verity’s home. She initial plans on just staying a couple days to go through Verity’s notes, but when her plans for living back in Manhattan fall through while she waits for her advance money to come through, she stays on, in part to read the memoir Verity wrote before her accident. Was the death of their twin daughters on separate occasions really accidents or was something more sinister afoot? Is Lowen imagining things when she thinks she sees Verity—who can’t walk or move voluntarily—watching her?Not a typical Colleen Hoover novel but good if you don’t like to be able to fall asleep at night. For more reviews, please visit http://www.theresaalan.net/blog  I mentioned in an update that while some people reduce Colleen Hoovers books to trauma porn, I think she really manages to be thoughtful and include a lot of messaging behind the sad moments. For example, it ends with us was a very healing experience for me, despite the more brutal scenes. I walked away with a lot more clarity on my experience with domestic violence. This book however… it was kind of just trauma porn lol. Don’t get me wrong, I still liked it, but towards the end I realized that it’s truly just a thriller, and it was great! Could I have done without the baby choking scene? Sure. But I managed to emotionally remove myself from the story enough to continue, and by the end I really did enjoy what it was doing. This book essentially gives you two ending to choose from. Either Verity’s autobiography, which we read throughout the book, or the long letter of Verity’s that we read at the very end. We have to decide if Verity, who is clearly a master manipulator regardless of which version of a person she is, was evil or just scared. Personally, due to one scene in particular, I am utterly positive that the version of her in her autobiography was the true version. But, it’s open to interpretation, and that’s what makes it fun.   A deeply unpleasant and distasteful attempt at a domestic suspense that ends up being anti-woman and anti-choice in its attempts to portray villainyMy spoiler-y review is here: https://youtu.be/NpQD00i-8Q0   WHAT THE FUCK DID I JUST READ? Update: I just read the bonus chapter and I’m shook. You know that sinking feeling in your gut? The one you can’t deny but want to ignore so you can focus on the good stuff?? …yeah, shit. —————————————————————————4.5* AAAH OMG THIS WAS SO NOT HOW I WAS EXPECTING IT TO END!! I READ THIS ALL IN ONE SITTING BECAUSE I NEEDED TO KNOW THE ENDING. BUT ALL IM LEFT WITH ARE MORE QUESTIONS!?!!! Why?!!! I PREDICTED MOST OF IT UP UNLTIL THAT LETTER. There were times when I’d have to just set the book aside to take a deep breath. Only to dive back in again. I almost cried twice. It had my heart palpitating at times and all I’d be chanting is “no!”. I DON’T EVEN KNOW HOW TO PROCESS THIS. ITS FUCKED TO A DEGREE WHERE IM ACTUALLY IMPRESSED HOW WORDS COULD MANIPULATE MY ENTIRE OPINION ON A PERSON TO TAKE A DRASTIC 180. Okay… I’M TEAM MANUSCRIPT. IF SHE’S A PSYCHO, SHE’S REALLY GOOD AT MANIPULATING THE TRUTH. BUT THEN HE’S READ IT BEFORE!?!AND WHY WOULD HE ASK WHERE SHE FOUND IT IF HE DIDN’T KNOW ABOUT IT?? AND WHY WOULD THE LETTER BE ADDRESSED TO JEREMY? IF SHE WROTE IT TO HIM THEN SHE WOULDN’T LIE ABOUT HIM TYING HER IN THAT CAR. OR HIM TRYING TO KILL HER. BECAUSE THAT WAS HIS FIRST REACTION WHEN SHE MOVED IN THAT ROOM. BUT THEN AGAIN SHES MANIPULATIVE. AND A WRITER WITH A BIG IMAGINATION. WHAT WOULD SHE GAIN BY DOING THIS. SHE COULDVE WANTED TO TAKE CREW TO KILL HIM. IDK BUT IN THE LETTER SHE SAYS IT FELT FREEING FOR HER TO WRITE THE MANUSCRIPT. WHAT IF ITS BECAUSE SHE FINALLY WAS ABLE TO BE HERSELF? HER TRUE SELF. NO FILTER. SINCE SHE WASNT COMPLETELY TRUTHFUL WITH JEREMY. THE RATIONAL SIDE OF MY BRAIN IS WHISPERING THAT THE LETTER SEEMS MORE PLAUSIBLE BUT THE IRRATIONAL(ROMANTIC) SIDE IS SCREAMING AT ME TO PAINT VERITY AS THE VILLAIN SO THEY CAN HAVE A HAPPY ENDING… THEREFORE TEAM MANUSCRIPT. The end. Side note: I feel like the characters needed more depth to them. It was kind of insta lovey but I’m not mad with how it turned out. I absolutely loved it. This book was unexpectedly addictive. From the moment I started, I couldn't stop turning the pages. It was so good that I wish I'd thought of it myself. 5 starsAfter all, this is a house full of Chronics. The next tragedy is already long overdue.Fun fact; my hair falls out from stress. After reading this book, I become almost bald.My mind is completely blown. I swear Colleen Hoover is so freakin brilliant! I read the whole book in one sitting. It was so unputdownable I couldn’t stop reading, waiting anxiously for a disaster to happen. I was so on edge. Suspecting everyone and everything. Trying to make sense of all of this nonsense.I was good at spewing bullshit. It’s why I became a writer.Lowen Ashleigh is a struggling author, but that changes when she’s offered a life changing opportunity. She was asked by Jeremy Crawford to ghostwrite write the remaining books in the series written by his famous wife, Verity, who is unable to finish the series due to a horrible accident. Lowen has to stay in the house for a few days so she can go through Verity’s notes. That’s when she stumbles upon Verity’s autobiography. As she reads she started to know thing that was never meant to be known. Secrets that weight too much for Lowen to carry without saying a thing. All along while starting to slowly fall into Jermey. "Some families are lucky enough to never experience a single tragedy. But then there are those families that seem to have tragedies waiting on the back burner. What can go wrong, goes wrong. And then gets worse.”I’ve learned long time ago not to expect anything or try to guess anything while reading a Colleen Hoover book, because no matter what, her books always exceeds my expectations. But that book? Dammit. That was something else!This book was so disturbing. So messed up. It messed with my head badly. And that freakin end? I DEMAND AN ANSWER! I feel manipulated. I was laughing hysterically after reading the last line. Like “whoa. What the hell?”The good thing about sins is they don’t have to be atoned for immediately,I swear I still feel haunted by Verity’s ghost. Or maybe I’m just suffering from the aftereffect of reading another Colleen Hoover book. She’s so freakin brilliant. This book may be one of my top favorite psychological thrillers and it’s written by a “Romance” author for god’s sake! That just proves how capable she is to write anything. She’s so gifted. Her writing is so spectacular and captivating and that’s why she will always be one of my all time favorite authors. Also, This book should definitely be turned into a movie!"I think the idea of me is better than the reality of me.”Song recommendation:Bury a friend by Billie Eilish Young and beautiful by Lana del Ray Guilty by Paloma faith  3.45/5 ⭐Lately, I've been attacked (not literally, but you get the point) by Colleen Hoover books so I was assuming that she and her books are trending now. It's not like I've never heard of her before (because I actually have) but I've never really come across an opportunity to read anything she wrote.Until now.So there I was (about a week ago), picking my first Colleen Hoover novel ever (out of a heap). I chose 
  Verity
 because it sounded like something controversial and I love controversial stories.And I actually did enjoy the story and I also kind of understood the hype (shocker, with an overall 4.40-something stars rating on Goodreads).The first thing I want to say is that I haven't been blown away by it. In my opinion, the whole plot was very simple, nothing too complicated, nothing to twist my mind and break it into a million pieces to try to anticipate the plot twists before they get to catch me off guard. Hoover added atmosphere to the story, I'll give her that. The little details that were thrown here and there seemingly accidental were, in fact, placed with a purpose so it would just create a whole atmosphere to fit in with some of the characters' personalities. Because let me tell you, they were all psychos in that book, no exception.And that's another thing I liked, surprisingly. Yes, I liked the fact that everyone was a psycho, deal with it. It just gave balance to the story. They also grossed me out at different points in time but maybe that was the original idea. You know, for depth and credibility or whatever. Also, the little passages of smut in there? F-ed up, but quite nicely written.
  
A good book overall, even though it was messed up, the relationships where all toxic and a little bit unrealistic, but still quite enjoyable because, as I said, they were all psychos so it worked for them.  Sale https://amzn.to/2Z9SlS95 brilliant starsWow I'm speechless, I don't know where to start with this one.Verity was a captivating,fast paced, twisted and addictive story.I was curious and intrigued from the beginning and while I read more I start feeling nervous and scared about what is going to happen next.The way Colleen says the story is unique and I was hooked from the very start.I love this side from Colleen and I wish we can see more books like Verity from her in the future!The ending was fantastic! &nbsp;
  
  

&nbsp;&nbsp;  وأخيراً رواية حلوة😍حلوة بس؟دي حلوة وممتعة ومشوقة وحابسة للأنفاس و مش حتقدر تسيبها إلا لما تخلصها:)كولين هووفر كاتبة أمريكية صدرت لها أكثر من ١٢ رواية، معظمها تصدّرَ قائمة الكتب الأكثر مبيعاً على صفحات جريدة نيويورك تايمز...علي الرغم إن تجاربي مع الأدب الأمريكي معظمها سيئة ولكن هنا نحن أمام كاتبة ذكية إستطاعت أن تكتب رواية من ٣٠٠ صفحة بدون أن تشعر بثانية واحدة من الملل...الرواية تعتبر رواية نفسية إلي حد ما و بتلقي الضوء علي العلاقات الزوجية و إزاي ممكن تكون عايش لسنوات مع شريك حياتك وتكتشف فجأة إنك تقريباً متعرفوش!تحتوي الرواية علي الكثير من المشاهد الإباحية والمفصلة أيضاً ولكنها كانت مكتوبة ببراعة و وجودها كان يخدم النص جداً...مش لازم نقرأ روايات تكون عميقة أوي أو حتي فيها معلومات ..في أوقات بنحتاج نقرأ للمتعة فقط و الصراحة الرواية هنا كانت فعلاً ممتعة وجداً كمان..الحبكة ممتازة ..السرد متقن...جزء بسيط بس في النهاية غير مقنع أوي و كان ممكن يكون أحلي..شكر واجب لصديقي العزيز محمد خالد علي ترشيحه للرواية و من كتر حماسه ليها قرأتها من غير ما أفكر ولا حتي أعرف هي بتتكلم عن ايه و كانت الصراحة إختيار ممتاز بعد قراءة الكثير من الروايات دون المستوي...رواية رائعة وبدون تفكير تستحق القراءة...  Suspensefully addictive and entertaining. This thriller will keep you guessing until the end!Lowen Ashleigh is hired to complete a book series for popular author Verity Crawford who cannot continue writing due to a life-changing injury. She temporarily stays into the Crawfords' home to research Verity's notes and files. What Lowen does not expect is to find a hidden manuscript revealing terrifying secrets.&nbsp;This story is a departure from Hoover's previous books. Instead of mesmerizing romance we find horror, intrigue, and suspense. I thoroughly enjoyed the novel and hope she continues exploring this genre.Overall, I loved it and recommend it to readers of thrillers, mysteries and contemporary fiction.  Well... that was... I don't even know what that was. I needed to process. Obviously I'm the clear minority on Verity because I just don't have good feelings in this moment. I'm kind of struggling with my thoughts currently, I just don't know what to think so here's me working out my thoughts...&nbsp;I really didn't like these characters. I disliked Verity for obvious reasons and whether that's fair or not, I just didn't. Even now, I don't. I did like Jeremy mostly but I never really trusted him and even though I hated Verity, I kind of hated Jeremy for his actions throughout the book. I'd say my feelings for Lowen are about the same. Even though I should've been rooting for her throughout the story, seeing as we come to understand the truth and the lies and every nuance of these events through her perspective, I just didn't like her. I couldn't relate to how she behaved and it all just felt gross. I felt every character, especially the women, were mostly selfish and unlikable and often pretty despicable and because of that, I just couldn't summon up positive feelings about the book itself.&nbsp;This is just one of those stories that is so dark and twisted, it's hard to really enjoy it. I like reading suspense from time to time but this just..&nbsp; I honestly don't even know. I kind of felt so sick reading it, that I couldn't wait for it to end. That might sound like a compliment to the book because some would say it evoked feelings good or bad, but truthfully it just doesn't feel like a good thing from my vantage point. I felt icky and I just wanted it to end.&nbsp;I'm a huge Colleen Hoover fan, as we know. I just don't think Verity felt like her at all. I always respect authors who won't be pigeonholed, who write whatever the hell they want to write regardless of how well it'll be recieved and I stand by that after reading this book. I silently high five Hoover and any author who take chances, who go against the grain and this certainly felt unlike anything I've read from this author to date. If the other reviews are anything to go by, readers are loving this darker side of Coho's repertoire and that's fantastic. There's no denying it's a smart read. There's a lot to be said about how we, as readers, interpret the novels we're given. We read between the lines, we make assumptions about the author based on fictitious ideas. We can't truly understand the mastery behind the process of writing true villainy or the crafting of an unreliable narrator. We hold words against the writer whether that's fair or not. We decide truth is truth and deceit is deceit and we struggle with rectifying it in our minds that maybe things aren't exactly as they seem. (At least I'm left struggling with that now.) Colleen Hoover takes all that, along with some seriously disturbing ideas and weaves it all together into a novel that I sooooo wish I'd enjoyed reading. There's no doubt it's incredibly impressive what she's done here, and I have a ton of respect for it. Unfortunately, that still doesn't mean I liked it. No two readers read the same book, and what I hoped to come away with seems to have evaded me with Verity. I think something just went over my head. Maybe I'm not enlightened enough to click with such a dark, twisty storyline but I'm envious of those that did and I hope readers will find what I didn't. This was dark and edgy and twisted and, to some, it'll be delightfully addictive. I just couldn't find Coho in it. The writing and storytelling felt like it came from a different author altogether and I just never connected. I closed the book, was happy it ended, but never felt like I enjoyed any part of the experience and at the end of the day, no matter how dark or steamy or romantic or thrilling or sweet or disturbing a book is, I just want to enjoy the time I spend with it..&nbsp; and with Verity, I simply did not.  I read a few of Hoover's romance novels and when I picked this up I assumed it was another romance. I was only half right. What the......!! I was pleasantly surprised with the creepiness and the psycho factor. 🖤🖤🖤 It was certainly a page turner. The manuscript definitely made me think who the bad person was. But I knew there had to be a twist though I couldn't figure what.This is 4.5 stars for me. It was amazing until the last chapter, the letter. Too detailed and wrapped everything all too well (maybe?).  WHAT THE FUCK , those are the only words I’ve been repeating over and over for the past 10 minutes because WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK?? WHAT THE HELL?? OH MY GOD???? HOLY THAT WAS- I can’t even comprehend what just happened WOW????? ★★★★★ 5 Stars ★★★★★My mind is all over the place, what an unexpected surprise from Colleen Hoover!A romantic thriller, that absolutely blew my mind, creeped me the heck out, and got me hot under the collar all in the space of a few pages. When I first began to read Verity, I admit that I wasn't too sure what all the fuss was about, I wasn't really sure where it was going, but then boom, it led me into a weird and wonderful rabbit hole of craziness.Go in blind, you'll thank me for it :)ARC gratefully received 
   
  
    
  
  
    
  
 "  3 starsI held off for a bit before writing this review because I truly needed to get all my thoughts in a row. CoHo, this was another miss. Be it may that this was better than some of her "romance" novels, yet still poorly done and unoriginal. Nothing surprised me, nothing gave me a thrill or brought on fear while reading. And the plot twist didn't give me an "OMG WTF" moment. I've read bad thrillers before that were better than this.Now, CoHo is great at writing walking red flags and just overall horrible characters—that isn't something new or extraordinary. Every single character was fucked up in one way or another whether you are on one team or the other (you will understand that if you read the book). As far as all the tropes she used in this book, most overdone, I guessed everything from the beginning.With all of that out of the way, this book was still entertaining to read, you know, kind of like watching a shit movie that you know is a shit movie just because it's a simple pleasure? One of those.
  Buddy read with Cara &amp; Camillia!
  What the heck did I just read? I really don't know who was more jacked up in this book. Everyone was horrible, haha. It was great. My biggest complaint: The ending was kind of disappointing.Biggest compliment: The true gift of writing such believable jacked-up characters.I definitely recommend this messed-up journey. Trigger Warning: Lots of crude sexual language for those not into that and child harm. This was my first Colleen Hoover book, and now I am scared to read any more since this is supposedly unlike any of her other books, and I enjoyed it so much. I hope she chooses to write more like this. Wonderful storyteller. Quotes that stood out to me“And that’s what love at first sight is. It isn’t really love at first sight until you’ve been with the person long enough for it to become love at first sight.”“I wanted to wake him up, frantic, and show him the blood. I wanted him to panic, to worry, to feel bad for me, to cry for me. To cry for me.”4/5 Stars  I am sitting here staring at the book cover trying to figure out what the HECK just happened. This is a departure from Colleen Hoover's usual books. Her genre is romantic with a breathable twist. This is nothing close to breathable. This is edge of your seat, horror movie, a psycho-thriller book. Verity is a well established writer who's published many bestsellers. However, a car accident has left her in a paraplegic state she can't go on writing. In comes her husband Jermey to find someone willing to finish writing her books. Jermey himself is struggling with the loss of two of his children; his two twin daughters who died in separate tragic accidents. Lowen, a struggling author, lands the role of writing Verity's book. She is asked by Jermey and the publisher to spend time at Verity's house researching her current books to get into Verity's head. How does Verity think? What is her writing style? When Lowen accidentally comes across an unfinished autobiography written by Verity the truths and lies start to unravel.What does Verity really think about her husband, her kids?Some books can take on the manipulative characters with such ease that you can guess what ensues, but Verity kept me guessing until the end. I like to pride myself on being able to subtly suspect and conclude correctly the ending of books and movies, but Verity took me on a real jaw-dropping, mind-blowing journey. Hoover does a good job with shocking and surprising twists even in her romantic novels. I gave this book 4/5 stars. It's a fast paced read with exhilarating drama. **A trigger warning should be in place for people who have lost children or close family members.Check out my other Colleen Hoover book reviews:It Ends with UsIt Starts with UsNovember 9Reminders of HimUgly Love  how is this even worse the second time🧍‍♀️-------------------------so I was editing this and I kind of deleted the entire “review” love that for me lol
  all you need to know about the bonus chapter is that:
 ➣ we didn’t get any answers (from what I read letter)➣ Jeremiah has a thing for breastfeeding (don’t ask I’m very much traumatized)➣ lawnmower is still an idiot and jealous of a dead woman.➣ crew is still the spawn of satan.SPOILERS╎ ╎ ╎╎╎╎╎╎╎╎╎╎╎╎╎╎╎╎ forgot to mention this but yes I am leaning toward team letter a tiny bit after that epilogue 😀WHITE BOY DID IT AGAIN. by again I mean kill someone for the second possibly third time. no further comment.the woman might be crazy but when there’s a man involved-don’t fucking hesitate.in the wise words of Blondie: I think he did it but I just can’t prove it.LET THE WAR BEGIN.  This book made me remember old prayers my grandma taught me because I was scared reading it at night🤣 Yes, I am easily spooked. It kept me on my toes the entire time and that’s what a good thriller should always do. I liked the characters, they were all morally grey I’d say and it was interesting to follow their relationships.The book reads really easily and I have to give all the credits to the author, she knows how to write and I’m slowly becoming her fan😩The reason I’m giving it less than 4 stars, as I initially wanted to, is because the ending was disappointing to me. With all the theories in my head, I expected my mind to be blown but instead it was very much meh :(  wow wow wowwwww! i just experienced a whirlwind of emotions and I can truly say this is an amazing thriller book. Everything is unsuspecting and you really don’t know what’s going to happen until the literal last chapter. I will say though I suspected the correct person from the start, then I kind of change my mind but went back to my original decision. So I’ll give myself a pat on the back for that. But I did not expect all the little things in between I mean the story will truly keep you at the edge of your seat. Colleen did what she had to do!  
  Most people come to New York to be discovered. The rest of us come here to hide.
 Disclaimer: I’m too shocked to write a proper review.Verity is a mind-blowing suspense perfect for mystery lovers. You can’t imagine how satisfying when an author surprises you that much, leaving you trying to articulate a word while your brain tries to record what the hell just happened. I thought I had everything figured out - did I?- and then that ending was everything!! I can’t tell you what the book is about, I can’t tell you why you should read this book, why I’m so excited and shocked without spoiling you. But trust me: this is the first book that surprises me in a while and if you love mysteries you won’t be disappointed. As for the romance, I don’t think it’s worth reading only for the romance. In my opinion, the romance is just there because it's something necessary for the story. So if you don’t like suspense and you’re only here for the romance, I wouldn’t recommend you Verity. Otherwise, you have to try this one. It’s brilliant, cunning, unexpected… Everything you can ask for in a mystery!! Note: Verity reminded me of The Thirteen Tale, if you have read Verity and liked the double narrative and the suspense, I think it’s worth a try (and vice versa). I liked Verity's ending more, but I had a great time trying to figure out what was happening in both!Now, for those who have read the book: SPOILER Please don’t read this if you want to read Verity. OKAY. WHAT THE HELL was that? My theory while I was reading the book was that Chastin died accidentally, psychopath-Verity killed Harper and then Jeremy tried to kill Verity after reading the manuscript with her biography. I was not expecting that letter. To be honest, I never believed psychopath-Verity tried to kill herself, it didn’t fit her personality. Do you believe her letter? Or do you think she was trying to manipulate them? The only thing I’m sure of it’s that she didn’t kill herself but, did she kill Harper? Not so sure anymore. Obviously that was what Colleen Hoover wanted, to make us doubt. If I had to bet, I think that letter was not her true self but Jeremy tried to kill her. I think it’s too much coincidence that Harper died only six months later than Chastin, and I also don’t think Verity would have told Crew to hold his breath if the canoe was an accident… But I guess we will never know!  4.5 starsI'll definitely be sending CoHo my therapy bill, because I think after reading  Verity,  I legitimately have PTSD.After being in a tragic car accident, Verity is unable to finish her bestselling novel series, and Lowen is asked to come on and "co-author" the rest of the series because Verity spoke so highly of her writing. Lowen comes to stay at Verity's house to go through her office and use her notes to work on the book, staying with Verity's husband and her son, Crew. The family is ridden with tragedy, both their daughters died extremely young at the hands of gruesome accidents. But when Lowen stumbles across Verity's disturbingly psychopathic unpublished auto-biography, she has to wonder- were they really accidents? Is Verity even sick?As with most CoHo books, I ended up having some practical questions, but overall I was captivated by the writing and found this extremely hard to put down. I just wanted to know what was going to happen next so bad- did she kill that baby??!?? DID SHE????On a scale of 1 to 10, the f8cked-Up-Ed-Ness was probably like a 15.The EVIL in this book- the   EVIL-   😭😭😭 CoHo, are you okay? Do YOU need therapy? Like, after reading this I'M pretty traumatized- do you need a hug? (Or possible to be locked up in a mental institution? 😬🤔)I'm KIDDING, I'm kidding. But... in all seriousness though, the woman did write half the book from the perspective of a psychopathic baby killer, you have to wonder a little bit.My practical questions/the reasons I knocked off half a star (Some of which are spoilers, but marked as such):1. The BeginningSo when Lowen gets blood all over her from the car wreck thing, I understand Jeremy maybe giving her a clean shirt and asking if she's ok, but like under no circumstances would I allow a grown ass man I don't know in any capacity to lock himself in a public bathroom with me and like- be there while I change, that is absurd and ridiculous. Idc if he looks like f9cking Timothee Chalamet, it's not happening. Irl that's a great way to get "kilt." 2. The Abrupt Tone Shift At The End I understand that it’s the epilogue and it’s 7 months later and whatever but it felt a little weird- like they killed Verity and then just never talked about it again and lived Happily Ever After?? Um- WHAT?? Like - ???  My Opinion About The Letter At The End: Verity, you are full of it, I know you murdered those babies. Idk, other than that I was completely here for this disturbingly enticing thriller and I feel like CoHo definitely needs to write more of them because I honestly would take this over 9 out of 10 of her romances any day.  •| ⊱✿⊰ |• 
  5 Stars
 •| ⊱✿⊰ |•Uma história completamente diferente do estilo que Colleen nos habituou, mas fantástica.Edição especial: Presente de NatalEdição normal lida em 2020Esta edição vem com um extra e a capa sugere-nos uma conclusão.Acreditamos no manuscrito ou na carta encontrada por Lowen após a morte de Verity?Confesso que sou pelo manuscrito, talvez porque se for pela carta é uma ironia demasiado macabra.Mas, se julgam ou esperam por uma conclusão...Enganam-se...Este capitulo extra deixa-nos com mais dúvidas, com tantas questões, tantos assuntos inacabados.Existe um twist enorme, em meia dúzia de páginas, que só pode sugerir um segundo livro...Então, vá lá, Colleen, toca a despachar esse segundo volume, porque isto não pode ficar assim, não depois deste capitulo extra.════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════A story completely different from the style Colleen has accustomed us to, but fantastic.Special Edition: Christmas GiftNormal edition read in 2020This edition comes with an extra and the cover suggests a conclusion.Do we believe the manuscript or the letter found by Lowe after Verity's death?I confess that I am for the manuscript, perhaps because if I am for the letter it is an irony too macabre.But if you think or wait for a conclusion...You'll be disappointed...This extra chapter leaves us with more doubts, with so many questions, so many unfinished business.There is a huge twist, within half a dozen pages, that can only suggest a second book...So, come on, Colleen, get that second volume out, because this can't stay like this, not after this extra chapter.════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════ ⋆ ★ ⋆ ════  FIVE FREAKING STARSHoly shit that was good!!!! This isn't my normal type of read, but I'm so thankful for this community because I would never have heard about it otherwise and I LOVED IT. Honestly, I thought this was in the ballpark of Gone Girl (the book I compare all other psych thrillers to and they NEVER come close). There were so many WTF's while reading this. I honestly couldn't wait to get back to this twisted ride because it was so fun to read.If you're reading this, you've seen the countless other reviews and summaries that are much better than mine, but what I will say is that I am not a CoHo (can I call her that?!) super fan (I've only read one other book by her (and that was a few weeks ago)), but this was a home run. Where can I get another book like this? When is she writing another thriller? I'm serious - I need to fill this void NOW.Was there a little too much sex? Maybe, but I'm okay with it in this instance. Some of the content that was deeply disturbing I had enough warning about (all the previous WTF's, etc.) so that helped me get into the right headspace. If I hadn't had any warning it would definitely have been more off-putting. I loved how I couldn't guess what was going to happen and that the ambiguous end left a lot to the imagination. It almost makes it creepier???My only slight criticism is that the end was a little too quick. There were 290+ pages of buildup and suspense and then - boom- it was over. CoHo - I am HERE for another venture into this genre. I hope you're working on it now! Also - NETFLIX GET ON THIS.   Verity. Omg the hype about this book! I am probably the last person in the world to read it, but decided to finally take the plunge. I originally didn’t think it would interest me, but damn was I wrong! Fast-paced from the first sentence, I was glued to my Kindle and didn’t want to put it down. While Hoover is more of a YA romance writer, I was pleasantly surprised that this book leaned more towards the romantic adult thriller genre. I found myself fully invested in all of the characters and literally on the edge of my seat throughout the entire book.It was a five star read for me up until the last couple of chapters. While I did appreciate the clever twist, savvy thriller readers might see it coming. I also was left with several major lingering questions. Hoover spends a great deal of time on certain plot elements that don’t lead anywhere in the end. I also think she had several opportunities to really go super dark with this (which would have been stellar), but she didn’t go all the way there. Overall, Verity is a surprise winner for me and I am so glad that I bought into the hype!4.5/5 stars  *****4.5 STARS*****Mind BLOWN!!!I had heard the rumors – Verity wasn’t anything like Colleen Hoover’s previous books – so I had to figure this one out for myself. I have read just about every one Colleen Hoover’s books and 9/10 of them I’ve enjoyed.RAW. GRITTY. TWISTED. BEAUTIFUL.Those a few of the words that come to mind with I think about Verity. I have never read anything by CoHo so bold and fearless. I was impressed to say the least.Read MoreRead More 
  
  
  
    Remember to follow all things messy. . .
  
  
  

  
 
  
 
  
 
  

  Subcribe/Listen to my podcast 

  
    
  
  
    
  
  
    
  
  
    
  
  To say this book was hyped when I read it would be a huge understatement. Everyone was FREAKING out about this book and I knew that I had to pick it up to see what the fuss was about. Lowen Ashleigh isn't sure how she's going to pay the rent on her apartment and is struggling financially. So when the opportunity comes from Jeremy Crawford to finish his wife's best-selling series because she can't write anymore, Lowen knows she needs to take the job. In order to do so, Lowen needs to stay at the Crawford's house to research and go through the author's notes. When Lowen arrives, though, there is an eerie presence in the house and Lowen uncovers secrets about the family that make her want to run and never return. Holy. Cow. The moment I finished this book, I honestly had no idea what to say or even think. I had heard that this book was an insane thriller, but I had no idea just how thrilling it would be. I will say it is definitely more psychologically thrilling, but boy did it mess with my head. I didn't know what to believe, who to believe, or what the heck was even happening. Going into this, I would honestly tell you to go in as blind as you can. This review is not that detailed because I had no idea what I was getting myself into, and I think that's why I loved it so much. So much shocked me and I had no idea what was going to happen next. There is a romance, but it definitely is not the central plot line. I normally don't read thrillers, but I was sucked in and could not put this book down.   Um mich kurz zu fassen:Einer der besten Thriller, die ich je gelesen habe!Üblicherweise verziehe ich kaum eine Miene beim Lesen. Dieses Buch hat mir den Atem stocken lassen - ich habe mir die Hand vor den im Schock aufgeklappten Mund gehalten - und einmal musste ich sogar laut quietschen, als mich Colleen Hoover eiskalt erwischte. Ich flog regelrecht durch die Seiten; die Sogwirkung war phänomenal. Verstörend ist es, und grausam. Da wird einem richtig klamm.Manche Leser sind mit dem Ende "unzufrieden", ich muss jedoch sagen: ich finde es perfekt. Ich glaube, auch wegen des Endes wird mich dieses Buch noch eine ganze Weile nicht loslassen. Wow.  Confession:I have never read a Colleen Hoover book.I know. I know.This one sounds interesting and a lot of my book friends seemed to have rated it favorably. I really think I need to pick this one up!(correct me if I am wrong in the comments below)  i just remembered to lower my rating on this 😌 maybe i'll talk about why one day who knows team manuscript I'm not letting some evil psychopath bitch gaslight me. *There might be mild spoilers in the review*It's really difficult to find low star rated reviews on gr for this book. The characters in this book were just trash. The plot is good and the writing is okay too but the things the characters said/did annoyed the hell out of me.This was my first book by Colleen Hoover and all I've ever heard about CoHo's books is that they are are heartbreaking and painful to read. Are you seriously kidding me? I have no idea about whom and what should I cry over. Verity? Jeremy? Lowen? The ending completely changed my mind about Verity (though I'm still contemplating if it was good or not). I hated her so much (I know she was supposed to be hated but still...) I liked the way her character was written. Lowen? Oh god she's such a bitch who thinks that ogling someone's husband is something which could be ignored. If she was a good writer and if she actually understood Verity's works then shouldn't she realize the truth behind Verity's manuscript? I mean if what Verity wrote was actually fiction then shouldn't she be able to good enough to analyse her works? Also she was dumb af. I mean I could tell about Verity's condition at that first "paranormal" incident yet she took the entire book to realize what was (or wasn't) wrong with her.Jeremy? This man should die please. He was such a jerk. What he did to Verity was unacceptable even if he was overdriven by grief. He was more of a "villain" than Verity. Now let's come to the parts/things I didn't like in this book.There were lots of insensitive lines thrown here and there in the book like-“Can you blame her?” I’m irritated that he’s making baseless claims. I turn around to finish the dishes. “She lost both of her daughters. Anyone who suffers through something like that would want to find a way out.” The way Lowen talked about Jeremy is just...*shudders*"I’m sure she thinks Jeremy and I lock ourselves in the master bedroom together after she leaves every evening. I wish she were right.""He is sweaty, but I don’t really think it’s gross.""He didn’t even touch me—he touched my fucking driver’s license—and it turned me on."The most eww worthy-"I flip through the pages of Verity’s manuscript, hoping to find an intimate scene with Jeremy."I have a question. What was the deal with April? Did she know about Verity?  ⭐ 4.75 stars ⭐What the fuck did I just read?? I'M IN SHOCK🤯😦 This definitely goes on my 2021 favorite reading list. Every chapter got me hooked and left me on the edge of my seat (no kidding).This book was so well written and the characters were created in such a great way, I can't explain it! Each had something that left me unsettled and I couldn't trust any of them.Verity was creepy af and scary. Sometimes I had to stop reading because there were scenes that were too much for me and my mind was trying to process them all.So obviously CoHo did it again and I'm proud of her for writing this masterpiece. Do yourself a favor and read this ASAP! (if you haven't already) 😌btw: thank you so much for the rec, Apoorva! this was exactly what I needed🤩  My first book by Colleen Hoover was a four star read the other ones haven't been more than 3 stars. But I still had high hopes for this and unfortunately it didn't live up for the hype I had set up. I didn't feel much tension between the pages and it felt rather messy. I had set up so much hype for this and sadly I was disappointed. Maybe I should accept that Colleen Hoover might not be the author for me  Extremely disturbing and unrealisticMost of the characters’ actions and reactions in this book are not feasible. If this book was under the fantasy category, I would have given it 5 stars!Spoilers ahead…In real life, especially if you have children, and you are of sound mind, and you are not depraved and you are not evil incarnate, you won’t be able to even consider imagining harming your child. The thought wouldn’t even be there. It would self-destroy before entering your brain. But our character, who in the end turns out is a loving and doting mother, not only fantasizes hurting her kids in unspeakable ways, but also writes it down for good measure as an autobiography. Why? Because some brain damaged agent advises her to do so to write better books. Our character writes the most depraved thoughts she has which reads like a diary, but forgets to mention to her husband that they are all made-up and lies.In this modern day, with advanced medical procedures, would someone be able to fake being paralyzed or have a mind of a child? Wouldn’t the nurses and doctors know if someone is faking it? There are so many unanswered questions and the end is so rushed that you are left wondering what the hell did you just read and can you have your lost time back?I know I am in the minority with my rating, please don’t shoot me. I just didn’t like it.   Ich weiß gerade nicht, ob ich diesem Buch 5 Sterne oder 1 Stern geben sollte. Aus einer Vielzahl von Gründen habe ich mich hier bei Goodreads aber für einen Stern entschieden."Verity" macht süchtig. Das Lesen hat mir wirklich Spaß gemacht. In diesem Sinne ist das Buch für mich wie Trash-TV.Doch die einzigen Emotionen, die dieses Buch wirklich bei mir hervorgerufen hat, waren Unverständnis, Ekel und lautes Auflachen. Die schockierenden Szenen in diesem Buch sind nur dazu da, um zu schockieren - sie erfüllen keinen Zweck und rufen keine aufrichtigen Emotionen bei mir hervor. Und das ist das große Problem von "Verity". Das Ende war dann noch das Tüpfelchen auf dem "i" in dem Wort "Schwachsinn", mit seinen Plotholes und der Fähigkeit, das gesamte Buch in wenigen Seiten noch weiter zu zerstören. Am meisten gestört hat mich der absolut platte Schreibstil. Die ordinäre Sprache. Die unnötigen Sexszenen. Dabei hatte die Thematik, das Setting, die interessanten Charaktere und der wirklich spannende Plot so viel Potenzial für eine geniale Geschichte. Doch die hätte man gut schreiben müssen. Und das hat Colleen Hoover leider für mich uns Verrecken nicht hingekriegt.Am Ende bleibe ich völlig verwirrt zurück. Was war das jetzt? Torture porn? Ein Softporno?Und warum hab ich diesen Schwachsinn so schnell inhaliert und mitgefiebert?Bitte kommentiert. 😅  4.9 ✰WOW WOW WOW WOW.i devoured this book. i couldn’t put it down.it was so disturbing and creepy and just so different from the books i usually read.even though this book was fucking with my head i loved it. the ending- are u serious? like are you kidding meeeee? what am i supposed to believe?!?!i’m sorry but i‘ll hide under my blanket for the next few days. maybe weeks. we‘ll see :)💌“You seek out people like you…people worse off than you…and you use them to make yourself feel better about the terrible things that have happened to you.”“I’m beginning to think Verity writes from a villainous point of view because she’s a villain”“The only question that remains is: Which truth was she manipulating”  i am 100% team manuscript. everyone in this book is fucked up and unhinged, even the kid freaked me out.i just read the extra chapter and i’m now convinced that jeremy is even worse than verity. don’t even get me started on crew he’s literally going to grow up to be a serial killer, mark my words.  i mean it was boring. it felt so long even though it isn’t, it’s very repetitive and the thrilling aspect isn’t very thrilling. i didn’t care about a single character and thought some of the relationships between them were underdeveloped. idk like u guys have to be lying??????  Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Following a tragic accident which has left best-selling author Verity Crawford a shell of herself, her husband Jeremy hires Lowen Ashleigh to complete the contracted final three books in Verity’s famous series. Brought to the family home in order to sort through Verity’s office, Lowen is soon to find out just what makes Verity tick. What she discovers will leave readers saying . . . . . 
  
This one earns its Starz because . . . . (1) Hoover released this independent of her contract with Atria (and Atria was cool enough to let her do it) in order for it to be a Kindle Unlimited option, therefore costing tons of readers zero dollars;(2) Despite having a loyal fanbase who want all the things, the price point for non-KU nutters (such as myself) was kept to an affordable $4.99 when most authors who have reached this level of fame would be slapping a minimum of $12.99 on the sucker;(3) It was released a week and a half early just because she was tired of waiting and that made me laugh because I too am a firm believer of the “ThisIsAmericaIWantItNow” mindset; and(4) Most importantly of all . . . . 
  
CoHo didn’t just say she was going to write something that was different from what her fans were used to – she wrote something so awesomely squicky even Mitchell wants to become a CoHort. To me, it doesn’t matter if I saw some things coming or if I wasn’t completely satisfied with whatever random thing I wasn’t satisfied with. The fact that this person who has found success via angsty romances was willing to go pitch black and potentially lose allllllllll of her readers??????
  
I mean, for real yo. You go Glen Coco.If you too like to experience the darker side of love, this might be a winner. Good news is you won’t have to be one-and-done with Colleen Hoover either because she wrote another not-so-lovey type of love story awhile back called Too Late and the best part about that one? It costs zero dollars for errrrrrrrrybody.Bought it with my own dollars as soon as it was released because there was zero chance I could have waited for the library to get a copy.ORIGINAL "REVIEW:"Please be good . . . . 
  
  4* The only question that remains is: Which truth was she manipulating?Lowen Ashleigh is a down-on-her-luck author, with her mother just having died and Lowen, in turn, being on the brink of financial ruin. Enter a surprising, yet also, disturbing encounter with Jeremy Crawford: attractive and with a proposition Lowen just cannot afford to turn down. Out-of-the-blue and with a lucrative offer, Jeremy has enticed Lowen into agreeing to complete a series of books. The books are a successful series written by his wife, Verity, before she was involved in an accident and as a result is unable to finish the series. Verity Crawford, since her accident, is allusive and a mystery. Lowen arrives at the Crawford home, a place shrouded in a dark atmosphere and tragedy. Here she discovers a hidden manuscript among Verity's belongings, where dark and disturbing secrets are laid to bare. Though it is clear that the manuscript will only bring horror, Lowen's curiosity is peaked and she can't hep but to continue reading, revealing truths that will do more harm than good.Along with the dark manuscript and the tragedian history of the Crawford home, Lowen becomes more and more paranoid of the almost bed-bound Verity, and what evil the woman could invoke.I loved the paranoia build up in this book, very much a bump-in-the-night and a game of who is watching you? Is it all in Lowen's head? Reading Verity's manuscript revealed bone-chilling admissions, they were twisty, and I couldn't help but become ensnared within the darkness of it all. The plot to this, teamed with the psychology of paranoia and female villainy, made for an enticing read.The reasons why this is a 4* read for me is that while the first half was good, it wasn't unputdownable for me (the second half was). I also do not care much for sexual scenes/romance in books. In addition, sometimes the character's actions or decisions seemed rather illogical or questionable to fit the story.   my jaw is on the floor i don’t know what to believe is real and what is fake about this book.  This review and other non-spoilery reviews can be found @The Book Prescription “Most people come to New York to be discovered. The rest of us come here to hide”🌟 Since I read “It Ends with Us” by CoHo I became an instant fan and wanted to discover her other works, and although I read all her latest releases after that book (without Merit, All your perfects) that novel is still my favorite book by her.🌟 I didn’t want to read Verity at first because I wasn’t getting the rush that I experienced while reading It Ends With Us! The synopsis sounded intriguing but I thought that I have read similar things before and wanted to skip it. A few days after the release of the book, Reviews started going around and all were positive reviews! The book is 250 pages long so I said “why not?!” at last and started reading it.🌟 WTF Colleen???You are supposed to write fluffy romances with important messages. I didn’t expect something that dark and creepy. This is like the next “Gone Girl”!I don’t think I read anything in the “Suspense Romance” genre but it was a great experience.🌟 The writing was good as usual but it had a different voice and that was important for the story. I never expected Colleen to venture into this territory and I never expected the outcome to be this good either. Colleen proved herself as a formidable author in different subgenres with this.  “As much as I try to forget where it all started to go wrong, I was cursed with this mind that never forgets a single thing.”🌟 The characters were realistic and creepy (How many times do I have to say that this book is creepy (Because it is!). I found it hard to root for any of them because the twists and atmosphere makes it hard to trust anyone!🌟 Plot wise, it was also eerie and so gripping. I put a lot of theories in mind and I came very close to the actual twist but Colleen did it differently and it is hard to explain what I mean without spoilers so I am going to skip the explanation here. I also liked that the MC was an author and that Colleen gave us some insight into writing and publishing. It was great to know these things from one of the big names in the industry.🌟 Everyone were talking about the ending and I think it was a strong ending too! It was scary and I still don’t know what to think because this is the kind of books that effs you up and leaves you thinking about it for while!🌟 Summary: This is not the typical CoHo romance book. It is even an indie work and not by CoHo’s usual publisher and that made it even more brilliant. I think it is better to go into this without knowing much which is my general rule when reading thrillers. Don’t worry though because big chances are that you will enjoy this. I ended up giving it 4 out of 5 stars.🌟 Prescription: For fans of Gillian Flynn and darker thrillers.  "Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again."	— The second Mrs de Winter, Rebecca by Daphne Du MaurierThis book made me feel as if I had gone back to Manderley again. The overpowering menace and the strong sense of something sinister had me remembering when I’d first read Rebecca 50 years ago.Dear Goodreads friends, don’t shame me because this is my first Colleen Hoover book. I’m not a romance reader, okay? If Ms Hoover writes more like this, I’ll be first in line to pick them up.ver·i·ty 	 /ˈverədē/	a true principle or belief, especially one of fundamental importanceWhat a fine name for the centerpiece of this book. Verity Crawford is a successful author who is now a vegetable. What is an author’s truth when a book is fiction? (Bet you don’t know if I’m talking about Verity or Colleen!) I couldn’t trust my instincts and I didn’t know who else to trust. I don’t think I’ll ever figure out what to believe about this book. I actually have chills thinking about it, and my brain is fried.This is the best psychological suspense book I’ve read in a long, long time. Absolutely a must read.  UPDATE AFTER READING THE BONUS CHAPTER: i. am. shocked. WHAT JUST HAPPENED???? yk what i was team letter then and i’m team letter now. verity was crazy but jeremy is crazier. there. i said it. and lowen wtf is wrong with you?? help😭 everyone is so fucked up in this booki read this book in one sitting. from cover to cover. literally. DAMN. i usually don’t like coho books but this one hit different.   This is Colleen Hoover's best book by far, and let me just say, me not hating this is the plot twist of the century. At first, the story was pretty cliche. I felt like I had read the same story before, but the ending was really great. I for sure didn't expect that. I read this.My mind is fucked.But It was mind blowing.And now I am questioning few things in life, but CoHo knows how to grab your attention.That fucking ending was 🤯  This was insane! Wickedly delicious, cruel and twisted, with flawed, unlikable characters who do terrible things. Not a feel-good story, that's for sure. The open-to-your-own interpretation ending is satisfying, original, unexpected, and will stay with me for a long time. And talk about chilling and creepy. There were even some jump scares – which are hard to convey in writing, but Colleen Hoover pulled it off magnificently. The opening pages certainly set the tone for the rest of the book, and they were brutal, so if you find yourself squeamish during the first chapter, then this probably isn't the right read for you. It also deals with topics of an extremely sensitive nature, that are horrifically sad, and emotionally draining. There are also multiple graphic sex scenes, so if any, or all of, these things aren’t your cup of tea then best to avoid this one.In debt, little known writer, Lowen Ashleigh, is offered her dream job, ghostwriting for bestselling author, Verity Crawford. Following the deaths of her twin daughters in two separate tragic accidents, it is believed Verity drove her car into a tree, sustained horrific injuries, and it is her grieving husband, Jeremy, who hires Lowen to finish the last two books in the series. Invited to move into the Crawford home, to sort though the author's notes, Lowen happens across an unpublished autobiography written by Verity. Curious, she starts to read but what she discovers within the pages shocks her to her very core. Should she share the contents with Jeremy? Destroy his life? At the same time she's also fighting her growing attraction towards him, and his young son. Then she starts seeing things, hearing things. What is going on in that house?Our protagonist, Lowen had rocks for brains, continuously made poor choicesis, and was about as pathetic as they come. I didn't feel sorry for her at all. She was the right choice of character for this kind of plot though – a well-adjusted person wouldn’t have been drawn to a man like Jeremey, instead would’ve got the hell out of that house at the first sign something wasn't right.In my opinion this was not romantic suspense. Well technically it is, but normally the relationship between the lead characters is either sexy or sweet, or both, whereas this was repulsive and all kinds of wrong. Shudder! This ain't no Nora Roberts or Karen Robards, just sayin'! I think psychological thriller best describes it.This was my first read by Colleen Hoover, as contemporary romance is a genre I only read on occasion. Even when I heard she was penning a thriller this still wasn't on my radar until all the 5 star reviews started pouring in on Goodreads, Amazon, and Instagram. I was intrigued and compelled to see what I was missing out on, and am thrilled that I purchased this on kindle, as it was worth every cent. All I can say is, Colleen Hoover better be working on her next thriller right now?! In the meantime I may just have to try one of her romances. Any recommendations? Only my second read of 2019, but this one's going to be a tough thriller to beat.  lo que más me gustó fue el final, pero aún así... meh  I went into this read fairly blind, not expecting it to be so good and twisty. The book starts off with quite a bang, which caught me off guard and started the ball rolling. Lowen Ashleigh, a unknown writer, is barely making ends meet when a once in a lifetime opportunity arises: To finish 3 books remaining in a highly successful book series written by an author named Verity Crawford. She’s not a likely pick based off her lack of confidence, her quirks and recent loss of her mother. Yet, she can’t refuse the money. Once she’s agreed and begins going through Verity’s office she finds an autobiography that she probably shouldn’t be reading, but she does, and this is where all hell breaks loose. This book kept me turning pages. I really enjoyed it and how the book takes you through different emotions and our opinions change as we get to know these characters. I was very suspicious in reading this story, but even at that I did not guess the twists nor the ending. Thoroughly enjoyable. Trigger warning: Explicit sexual scenesAfter thinking about this more, I bumped from 4 to 5 stars.   Verity by Colleen Hoover⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️OMG…It’s 10pm and I just finished listening to the audio book Verity by Colleen Hoover there is no way I’m going to be able to sleep. This is my 3rd book I have read in 2022 and it’s a 5⭐️ plus. Does this mean the rest of the books I read in 2022 is all down hill???I am having difficulty writing a review because my mind is absolutely reeling and wondering what the hell I just listened to. It’s a psychological mind blowing thriller, not knowing what is reality and what is fiction. An incredible storyline that kept me guessing from the beginning to the end. This will definitely keep my mind processing for days to come.  4/5 ⭐1.5/5 🌶️ I don���t know how many times I said “What the F@$%” while reading this book. This is an unsettling and creepy read but in all the right ways. Jeremy. Jesus Jeremy. I have so many mix feeling about him. Love/Hate/Lust/Disgust/SorrowQuotes: “It’s natural, to assume the worst in people, even if that assumption is only for a split second”“I needed for the imaginary version of my world to be darker than my real world. Otherwise, I would have wanted to leave them both.”“the things lurking around inside the mind can be just as dangerous as tangible threats.”  I’m a sucker for gothic novels and this is a tense and terrifying modern take on a classic thriller. Didn’t necessarily buy all of the ending, but was happy to spend an evening frantically turning pages to get there. I had not heard of this author before joining Goodreads. So this is my first venture into the world of Colleen Hoover and what a raunchy world it was too 🤭. Verity starts with Lowen witnessing a shocking accident in Manhattan ... Lowen is an author and is very down on her luck, she had been caring for her mother, who had just passed away. During this time she had not been able to work and now bills are stacking up and an eviction notice put through her door, is the final straw. Then alongs come an offer too good to be true. A well known author Verity Crawford has been in a car accident and is unable to finish her next novel. Publishers are getting twitchy and they suggested bringing in a co-author or ghost writer to finish the series. She can live in and will be paid an extraordinary fee. Things are looking up for Lowen as she accepts the job. She feels the task may be beyond her but Verity’s husband, Jeremy, was very persuasive...... it also helped that he was extremely good looking ! However when she arrives at the oppressive looking home of Verity Crawford, she feels a slight tingle of apprehension run down her spine. Maybe this offer really is too good to be true ! I’m very keen to try another Hoover, although from the epilogue it sounds this book is a departure from her usual style. A definite recommendation from me !  This was a fucked up book with fucked up characters and I'm a fucked up person who really liked it Tengo edad de señor mayor y recuerdo una película que se estrenó en 1989 llamada “Sexo, mentiras y cintas de vídeo”. Hemos leído “Verity: La sombra de un engaño” en el club de lectura Se ha escrito un crimen y es un libro que bien podría haberse llamado “Sexo, mentiras y novelas” porque tenemos un triángulo amoroso-literario: escritora 1, buenorro y escritora 2 que engancha una barbaridad.A los amantes de la erótica quizá les parezca demasiado perturbadora.A los amantes del thriller quizá les parezca demasiado hot.A mí, que soy más thrilleriano que eroticofestivo, me ha gustado la mezcla gracias a esa estructura doble (realidad + biografía). Mientras leía he hecho muchas cábalas y los capítulos se me han pasado volando.Se me cae una estrella por el final, que no me ha terminado de convencer. Me han gustado más los fuegos artificiales “durante” que la última traca, pero soy de los que disfrutan el camino… y el de Verity ha sido apasionante.  IF YOU HAVEN’T READ THE BONUS CHAPTER RUN AND READ IT RIGHT NOW!!!!I thought this book was fucked the first time. I literally feel sick after reading the bonus chapter. WHAT IS REAL???! I’m forever changed. I’m unwell. I’ll never know peace.  CHRIST ON A CRACKER this was a damn fantastic book! I legit seem to be in the minority with having never read a single book by this author before, and I am still not sure her romances are my jam, but if she writes anymore psychological thriller type stories I will be at the head of the line trying to get my grubby hands on an early copy! I am not going to say too much about the book. It is one of those stories that is best gone into blindly. It was amazingly written and had me hooked from the first page. The pace was pretty much perfect. The plot was intricate and well developed. There were plenty of twists and turns. A little bit of romance. A smidge of sex, and an ending that was jaw-dropping. Not bragging, but I am super good at Sherlocking out twists, but yea...little Miss Me DID NOT see that coming. Nothing really left to say; this was one of the best books I have read this year. Way to squeak it in under the wire Miz Hoover (lol).    This is an objectively bad book. My friend Saska had to read this for a book club she was in, and she deeply disliked it. She didn't tell me why, but she did tell me to read it, to see for myself. All I can say is that I agree with her.Although, that's not all. I have so much more to say about this book. For one, the heroine (and I use the word lightly here) Lowen is the kind of woman who would die within the first ten minutes of a horror movie; that's how stupid she is. She is really, really stupid. I feel like I can't emphasise this enough. I almost feel like she brings these untoward situations on herself. She copes by constantly telling herself that what she's been hallucinating and seeing things. But you know what they say, two times is a coincidence, three times is a crime. She's also pretty pathetic for a heroine, and not in an endearing way. She has a habit of deprecating herself, and then getting mad at herself for doing that, which doesn't begin to make sense to me. What also doesn't make sense to me is how quickly she (although she isn't alone in this) falls in love with a complete stranger. A married stranger whose life has been punctuated by various and sundry tragedies, but this only moves to arouse Lowen's loins, and not her suspicions. Even when she has to move into his large, ungainly house for "research". Refer above to my observation that she isn't very smart. The awkward, introverted heroine who removes her glasses off to show she was beautiful all along is a dead horse that YA/NA authors won't stop beating, and I'm really quite tired of it. On that note also, Jeremy either has a dick made of solid gold or he's a hypnotist because there's a level of obsession that women have with it that cannot be explained otherwise. He doesn't seem to have much of a personality outside of his penis, but I've come to realise that that doesn't matter so much if he's attractive.I'm not a psychologist or a psychiatrist, but I think Verity is supposed to be a textbook psychopath. Beautiful. Charismatic. Manipulative. Selfish.... She checks all the boxes. The problem is, I think CoHo uses this psychopathy as an excuse to make Verity the "bitch", the villain. And this is the part I'm uncomfortable with, because she loops in all the things that make a woman seem villainous as parts of Verity's "psychopathy". Verity never wanted to have children, ever, I don't think. In fact I don't think she ever thought she would fall in love and get married. This is not an excuse, but somehow that, with the combination of the aforementioned psychopathy, and an accidental pregnancy are supposed to make her a compelling villain because really, she doesn't much care for her children. I hate tropes that vilify women for not wanting children, or give the women children anyway, hoping they'll realise that they do, in fact, have maternal instincts. I fucking hate that, and that's exactly what Verity does. It throws a woman who's already disturbed and dangerous into an unfortunate situation to disparage her. I understand that that's how a lot of villains are made, but there's something about this particular cocktail of circumstances that irritates me. There's also the strange epilogue to unpack, which also sort of reiterates my point on how easy it is to vilify women when we look at them as psychopaths who aren't maternal. And well, glorify men that we think *are* paternal. I feel like maybe the epilogue was supposed to be a "gotcha!" moment, but it was too short and unnecessary to have any impact. Simply, it didn't fit into the rest of the story.Don't even get me started on the very frequent and vivid sex scenes. I don't really care much about sex in books generally; have it, don't have it. However, if a book is marketed as a thriller, or even generally as fiction, the incidence of such graphic sex in every other chapter makes me feel cheated. Add to it that much of this sex is very vanilla. Hoover conveniently kink-shames a man who liked being choked, so there's that. There isn't much gravitas to the thriller aspect at all, and the ending is highly predictable (albeit a little implausible, like medically speaking). Most of all, CoHo is not a very good writer, I have a special hatred in my heart for her metaphors. For instance, at one point Lowen says: 
  His voice sounded like his throat was coated in honey.
 I don't know what the fuck that means. In another place, she says 
  Her fine hair lifts in the breeze, like the fingers of a ghost are playing with the strands.
 I get what she means, but it's too corny and I'm not here for it. There's also my favourite line (not): 
  The clever and talented Verity is no longer in there. Was her body the only thing that survived that wreck? It’s as if she were an egg, cracked open and poured out, and all that’s left are the tiny fragments of hard shell.I glance back down at the desk and try to focus. I can’t help but wonder how Jeremy is handling all this. He’s a concrete pillar on the outside, but the inside has to be hollow. It’s disappointing, knowing this is his life now. Caring for an egg shell with no yolk.
 I fucking hated reading that. I also came across grammatical errors (like substituting the possessive "its" for the contraction "it's"; and the word "intact" being written as "in tact" that I can remember off the top of my head) that I really think should have been edited out, especially for a book of such acclaim.I'm oh-so-tired of smut being marketed as "contemporary fiction". Call me a purist, but I've generally found the non-smutty contemporary fiction more bearable. If you still want to smut, however, it would bode well for you do it well.   1.5stars: What a disappointment. The premise of “Verity” is intriguing: a struggling writer on the brink of financial ruin is asked to ghost-pen the remaining books in a very successful series. Once the writer arrives at a remote mansion of the successful author, Verity, things get dark and creepy. It’s almost a gothic read, with Verity in a coma and the handsome husband appearing helpless in a big mansion with a young son. Lowen, the writer, finds a manuscript hidden away. It appears to be a memoir written by Verity. Lowen begins to look at things in a different light. Is the husband that helpless? Is Verity really in a coma? Is Verity evil?It’s a cheesy read. I listened to the audio, narrated by Vanessa Johansson and Amy Landon. I enjoyed listening to their voices.  Audio....4.5 stars Story.... 4.5 That's Messed up Stars I have sampled and disliked books by this author to the point that I shelved her under "author to avoid". Well this delightful fuckery of a book has changed my mind.   Quizás fue debido al hype o que había leído antes un libro similar a este, pero para mí, ha estado muy mal ejecutado.Siempre me han gustado e intrigado las personalidades con tonalidades grises en los personajes, pero acá se romantiza este rasgo de personalidad y, no solo eso, se trata de mostrar como a alguien bueno y que merece todo lo mejor cuando su moralidad es más que cuestionable. Y que decir de la protagonista, Lowen, también de moralidad cuestionable, justificando lo injustificable de sus acciones y, peor aún, las del protagonista masculino, Jeremy. Lowen no consigue o no quiere ver más alla de lo que a ella le parece lo correcto o intenta acomodar la realidad para su conveniencia 🤔; disfrazando todo esto como “ingenuidad” 🙄🙄.Odio a este tipo de personajes que tratan de adaptarse al otro para no quedar solos. Se que tenía traumas, sobre todo en el vínculo primario, que predicen sus acciones posteriores o emociones, pero supuestamente estuvo en terapia (no señalan si la dieron de alta, aunque con sus comportamientos lo más probable es que no).Por último, el niño sufre reiteradas perdidas y ¿está feliz con los últimos cambios, extremos por decirlo menos, en su vida? O sea no se trato nada de esto, él sabía la verdad de todo lo que ocurría en esa casa, en su familia; los progenitores continuaban construyendo ese vínculo maternofilial y aunque la autora diga que era pequeño porque tenia cinco años no va a recordar nada, ¿no va a lograr atar cabos, aunque sea a largo plazo?.El libro cumple al ser adictivo y de lectura rápida, pero esta muy mal ejecutado, deja muchos temas sin tratar, justifica la pésima moralidad de sus personajes; haciendo creer al lector que son empaticos, ingenuos y que creen en la justicia; además se da el lujo de pensar que somos tan ilusos al darnos ese final 🙄🙄!!. Primer libro que leo de la autora y se va a mis peores lecturas del año 🥺.  ***4 Stars***THIS BOOK. WOAH. This book is... disturbing to say the least. But also disturbingly good.Colleen Hoover is an amazing writer and even though I have sworn off reading any more of her books, when I saw that this is not just a typical romance novel, but a mystery/suspense one too, I thought I'd give it a go. And man, I was not disappointed! It is good. That's a fact. Gripping, intense and incredibly well written. It's the kind of book you don't want to put down, because you just HAVE TO KNOW what's going to happen next. Since this was on a list of books to read for a book club I'm in and I read it ahead of the scheduled date, I won't go into any details now - I don't want to spoil anything for my reading buddy :DHopefully, I'll be back to review this properly sometime soon. P.S. That's when I'll explain why I am only giving it 4 stars instead of 5, when I actually thought it was so good.UPDATE: I forgot why I gave this book 4 stars instead of 5 😂😂 Maybe a re-read is in order.  This book grabbed me from page 1 and I couldn't put it down. One of the best suspense books I have read in a very long time. It could have done without the sex scenes but at least they weren't graphic or long, I just skipped over them. In spite of that it is still a solid 5* "Cuando una persona encuentra a alguien que hace desaparecer toda la negatividad de sus vidas, es difícil no alimentarse de esa persona".4★Si tuviera que describir el libro con una palabra sería "Escalofriante".Colleen se está superando cada vez más con cada libro que saca. Tiene un talento único con la escritura y lo demuestra siempre.Pero ahora me iré a la historia, y haré una reseña Sin Spoilers que es la siguiente y a la última, diré mi opinión del final con Spoilers, pero avisaré cuando habrá Spoilers.La historia está narrada desde el punto de vista de Lowen, que es la protagonista, ella es una escritora fantasma, sus libros no tienen mucho éxito, y cómo quedó tan mal económicamente desde la muerte de su mamá, su agente le da una cita con la editorial de "Verity Crawford", que justamente van con la intención de contratar a Lowen para que termine la saga de libros de Varity que ella misma no puede terminar por que sufrió un accidente. Acá se presenta el esposo de Verity, Jeremy Crawford para contratar a Lowen. Ella acepta y se va a la casa de la familia Crawford para leer los manuscritos de Verity y poder seguir con sus libros, pero, en ese mismo lugar, encontrará un escrito con un gran secreto por parte de Verity, que nadie sabe.Así es el comienzo del libro. La historia al comienzo es un poco aburrida, incluso hay escenas que directamente no aportan nada a todo el Triller del libro. Pero todo cambia cuando la protagonista llega a la casa de los Crawford, ahí todo se pone más interesante.Si tengo que elegir un personaje favorito, sería Verity, ella me encanta por como escribe, con que crudeza expone en el papel todo lo que siente, con que cabeza piensa esas cosas tan atroces que se le ocurre. Solo la conocemos por todo lo que lee Lowen de ella en sus escritos. Osea la conocemos desde diferentes puntos de vista. Pero este personaje me encantó. Por qué al mismo tiempo es villana y víctima.Cabe aclarar que el libro no es de Romance, si hay, pero.no es el centro de todo. Lowen no me callo mal, es más, me asustaba con ella cada vez que sucedía algo raro en esa casa, ya se pueden dar una idea de lo bien que está escrito este libro, aunque no me sorprende de Colleen, la chica fue la primera en sospechar de Verity, y teniendo sus razones. Además la llegue a entender un poco a cómo se sentía con respecto a su vida.Jeremy es una de las personas más deprimidas del libro, y también tiene por qué, perdió a dos de sus hijas, y con su esposa en silla de ruedas. Es horrible,pero también a él lo vamos conociendo más desde el punto de vista de Verity. Y si bien tenía actitudes que lo hacían ver.como un buen hombre, no.me termino de convencer.Lo que no me gustó del libro fue el romance que surge entre Lowen y Jeremy, y eso que soy fanatica de las parejas en los libros, pero a este "Romance" lo sentí apresurado, e innecesario. Y por eso no pude darle las 5 estrellas.Otra cosa, hay muchas escenas de sexo, y muy descritas, obviamente eso no me molesto en absoluto,pero ya llegba a agobiar leer tantas.En fin, el libro te deja un matete en la cabeza con todo lo que pasa, no sabes en quien creer y que verdad creer, por qué al final te salgan con otra supuesta verdad de todo lo que pasó y te deja en shock.Pero lo recomiendo mucho, vale destacar que lo que más me gustó del libro fue la forma en que está escrito, por qué en varios momentos me hizo sentir escalofríos y hasta miedo (también eso me pasó por leerlo en toda una noche).Es retorcido, pero con una historia bien contada y con un final que te deja shockeada y sin dudas lo volvería a releer en un futuro.Ahora sí voy a decir mi opinión del final con Spoilers, ya están avisados..Para mí,con respecto a lo que dice al final la carta de Verity es mentira, no pude creerlo, y hasta puedo jurar que escribió esa carta cuando supo que ya habían leído su autobiografía.Fue imposible creerle, la muerte de su hija delata Obviamente que ella la mató, no fue un accidente, era imposible. Y además todo lo que ella hizo durante su embarazo fueron las consecuencias que tuvieron las niñas al nacer. Yo sí la ví como una psicópata, Por eso es la villana desde mi punto de vista, y además fingir por tanto tiempo estar invalida para llegar a un momento oportuno y llevarse a su hijo, lo hubiese hecho en su primer día después del accidente, y no hubiese estado fingiendo tantos meses, no le ví sentido.Lo que si considero que puede ser verdad, es que la que la puso en el auto para que choque con el árbol fue su esposo. Ya que él ya había leído esa autobiografía de ella, por qué cuando Lowen apenas se la muestra el le dice "¿Donde encontraste eso?" 😒. Ya es obvio, pero tampoco lo puedo juzgar, creo que hasta yo hubiese hecho lo mismo, más al leer como Verity odiaba a sus hijos, y como tantas veces a escondidas de él se quiso hacer un aborto, ella estaba obsesionada con Jeremy, y no entiendo cómo él nunca se dió cuenta y la mando al psiquiatra, no era sano.Pero tampoco estoy de acuerdo con que la hayan matado sin escucharla, no me pareció justo. Mínimo merecía hablar de por qué fingió tanto tiempo estar invalida.Y con lo que hizo Lowen (ya embarazada, por qué no se cuidaban, y también me pareció inecesario) con esa carta, a eso no se cómo tomarlo, por qué tampoco le puedo creer a Verity. Pero si creo lo de Jeremy y me gustaría saber por qué no la denunció directamente con la policía al leer los papeles, si tantos deseo tenía de matarla, a pesar de que haya sobrevivido al accidente la hubiese denunciado igual aún estando invalida.Y también sería interesante ver cómo era desde el punto de vista de Jeremy su relación de años con Verity, para saber si todo lo que ella dijo es verdad o hay mentiras también en su relato.Pero es un libro de Colleen Hoover, así que ya me esperaba un final abierto. Si me impresionó mucho esa carta al final,pero no cambio mi punto de vista hacia Verity, todo la culpa a ella, pero me encantó su manera de relatarse a ella misma como la villana y estar en su mente.En fin, esto quedó larguísimo, léelo por qué vale la pena, es una historia atrapante. Y estas fueron como mis conclusiones del final.Lo que si me dió mucha pena Crew, ese chico presenció la.muerte de su hermana y un montón de cosas más que causó la mamá, lo mejor que pudieron hacer es llevarlo a un psiquiatra..en si el final no me gustó, pero lo acepte y aunque si me pareció injusto ese final para Verity.  I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO BELIEVE.  